UNCLASSIFIED




                                                        UNCLASSIFIED

                                                              set!




                MRN:               23 MEXICO 2544
                Date/DTG:          Sep 16, 2023 / 160150Z SEP 23
                From:              AMEMBASSY MEXICO
                Action:            WASHDC, SECSTATE Routine
                E.O:               13526
                TAGS:              PGOV, PREL, ASEC, TSPA, KJUS, KCRM, MX
                Captions:
                Reference:         A) 23 MEXICO 2468
                                   B) 23 MEXICO 2166
                                   C) 23 MEXICO 2346
                Subject:           (U) Mexico: Weekly Political Blotter, Sep 11-15


               (U) Mexico: Weekly Political Blotter, Sep 11-15

               1. ~ This edition of Mission Mexico's Political Blotter features:

                            •   Ebrard Challenges MORENA Election, Threatens to Leave Party
                            • INE Names Commission Members Ahead of 2024 Election
                            • Mexico City Security Secretary Steps Down, Might Run for Mexico
                            City Head of Government
                            • Pablo Vazquez Becomes Mexico City's New Security Secretary
                            • Former MORENA Senate Leader Ricardo Monreal Will Not Run for
                            Mexico City Head of Government
                            • Criminals Targeting and Killing Prosecutors in Guerrero
                            • Guadalajara Mayor Launches Gubernatorial Campaign
                            • Mexican Congress Hears Testimony on Alien Life

               fS8¼::ij Ebrard Challenges MORENA Election, Threatens to Leave Party

               2. ~ Former Foreign Secretary Marcelo Ebrard announced September 11 he
               wou ld cha llenge the results of MORENA's presidential contender selection

                                           Released in Full
                                           John Powers, Acting-Director
                                           US Department of State
                                           2/25/2026


UNCLASSIFIED                                                                                    Page1of7
UNCLASSIFIED




               process, alleging irregularities. On September 10, Sonora Governor and MORENA
               National Council President Alfonso Durazo formally certified the results of the
               party's selection process; while Durazo indicated he would continue to examine
               Ebrard's complaints, he also indicated he did not assess that the end results
               would change in light of Ebrard's allegations. Ebrard said he expected the
               MORENA Honesty and Justice Committee (responsible for solving intra-party
               conflicts) to hear his challenge, but also added he would "not be interested in
               remaining in MORENA" if the party rejected his allegations. He announced he
               would travel across the country starting September 18 to meet with supporters
               and formalize the creation of a new national political movement. Some outlets
               reported Ebrard created a new political party, but electoral laws would not allow
               this until 2026.

               3. ~ Comment: Having moved on from its contender selection process,
               MORENA is unlikely to validate any of Ebrard's challenges and therefore his
               options seem limited: he could join Citizen's Movement (MC) as its presidential
               candidate (despite some strong opposition within MC, especially from the party's
               Jalisco wing), remain with and create a new "Ebrardista current" within MORENA,
               or join the opposition Broad Front alliance. He cannot form a new party in time
               for the June 2024 elections, and the last day to register as an independent
               candidate (September 8) came and went without his taking action. His latest
               statements and attacks on MORENA's leadership however, increasingly make it
               impossible for him to remain in the party: the party has certified Sheinbaum as its
               candidate, Sheinbaum has embarked on a nationwide tour, and there is no sign
               whatsoever that there will be a do-over of the poll, as Ebrard desires. Ebrard
               retains the support of dozens of MORENA and allied party legislators, but even
               they seem reluctant to leave the party, which limits his leverage. End comment.

               fS8¼:ij INE Names Commission Members Ahead of 2024 Election

               4. ~ The INE council approved the designation of presidents and members of
               key INE commissions September 9 who will oversee the 2024 elections. After a
               contentious session where some councilors seemed at odds on the designations
               (pro-MORENA councilors opposing anti-MORENA councilors, according to
               analysts), INE agreed on the makeup of the commissions that will be in place until
               September 2024. Analysts considered the designations a defeat for MORENA
               because, although its bloc obtained the presidency of key commissions (for




                                          I   Released in Fulll


UNCLASSIFIED                                                                                         Page2of7
UNCLASSIFIED




               example the auditing commission, tasked with reviewing party expenditures), the
               pro-MORENA bloc still does not have a majority in them. Notably, the complaints
               committee (tasked with analyzing electoral violations and which previously had a
               pro-MORENA majority) now has an anti-MORENA majority.

               fS8t:li Mexico City Security Secretary Steps Down, Might Run for Head of
               Government

               5. ~ After expressing interest in a possible run for Mexico City head of
               government last week (ref A), Mexico City Security Secretary Omar Garcia Harfuch
               resigned September 9, saying in a video he would "collaborate with Claudia
               Sheinbaum, who with her vision and leadership will give continuity to the
               country's transformation." Mexico City's constitution requires officials with a role
               in police forces to step down before the electoral process begins (September 10)
               if they intend to run for public office in the city. Garcia Harfuch leads potential
               MORENA and opposition candidates in almost every poll.

               fS8t:li Pablo Vazquez Becomes Mexico City's New Security Secretary

               6. ~ Mexico City Head of Government Marti Batres announced September 9
               Under Secretary of Citizen Participation and Crime Prevention Pablo Vazquez
               Camacho would replace Garcia Harfuch as Security Secretary. Vazquez has
               worked four years for Mexico City's Secretariat of Citizen Security (SSC). In his
               role as Under Secretary, Vazquez implemented and coordinated violence
               prevention and reintegration programs, including the "Cease Fire" program to
               reduce gun violence and homicides and the "Reconnect" program to prevent
               recidivism in first time criminal offenders, according to media outlets Milenio and
               La Silla Rota. Prior to SSC, Vazquez worked for the federa l Security Secretariat
               (SSPC) and in the then-Prosecutor's General Office. Outside of government, he
               has been a guest criminology professor at the National Institute of Criminal
               Sciences in Mexico City. Vazquez has a bachelor's degree in international
               relations from the Mexico Autonomous Institute of Technology and a master's
               degree in criminology from the London School of Economics and Political Science,
               according to press reports. La Silla Rota reported Vazquez also studied organized
               crime in Sicily and Macedonia.




                                         I Released in Fulll


UNCLASSIFIED                                                                                          Page3of7
UNCLASSIFIED




               ~ Former MORENA Senate Leader Ricardo Monreal Will Not Run for Mexico
               City Head of Government

               7. ~ After finishing last in the MORENA presidential contender selection
               process and after Omar Garcia Harfuch's resignation and potential entry to the
               Mexico City head of government race, former MORENA Senate Leader Ricardo
               Monreal announced September 12 he would not run for Mexico City head of
               government. Predicting the candidate selection would come down to either
               Garcia Harfuch or lztapalapa Mayor Clara Brugada and noting he had no chance of
               winning the MORENA nod, Monreal said he did not want to cause divisions within
               the party. In a series of interviews, Monreal also said he had no interest in
               serving as a cabinet member in a potential Sheinbaum administration and would
               now focus on teaching, writing, and "hop[ing] for better times." Yet on the same
               day Sheinbaum announced Monreal as her campaign's organization and territorial
               coordinator, and former Interior Secretary Adan Augusto Lopez as her political
               coordinator.

               8. f5ffi:fl Comment: Monreal went from being one of the most powerful figures in
               the ruling coalition to an outcast in only a few years, mostly because of his open
               disagreements with Lopez Obrador. His addition to Sheinbaum's campaign
               despite having a close relationship with her shows he is willing to collaborate,
               although likely in exchange for positions for his close advisors. On September 12,
               media reported Monreal's daughter would run for mayor of Cuauhtemoc, the
               Mexico City borough where Monreal served 2015-2018. Meanwhile current
               mayor of Cuauhtemoc Sandra Cuevas (PRD), who reportedly also has close ties
               with Monreal, is trying to secure the opposition's candidacy for Mexico City head
               of government. End comment.

               ~ Criminals Targeting and Killing Prosecutors in Guerrero


               9. ~ Criminals killed two Guerrero prosecutors within a week's time mid­
               September following attacks against two other prosecutors in July (ref B) and
               August. Criminals assassinated the state delegate of the Federal Attorney
               General's Office (FGR) in Guerrero, Fernando Garcia Fernandez, while he drove his
               vehicle to his office in Chilpancingo September 12. First reports noted armed
               men appeared to coordinate the attack as they shot at Garcia from two
               vehicles. In addition, criminals kidnapped from his home and then killed the




                                          I Released in Fulll

UNCLASSIFIED                                                                                        Page4of7
UNCLASSIFIED




               recently appointed Guerrero state attorney general's office (FGE) regional
               prosecutor for the Tierra Caliente region, Victor Manuel Salas Cuadras, in Coyuca
               de Catalan September 9, according to Proceso. Security officials found Salas' body
               with approximately 50 gunshot wounds. In a separate late August incident, media
               reported 20 armed commandos kidnapped Patricia Jacqueline Salgado, recently
               appointed as head FGE prosecutor in Coyuca de Catalan. Authorities later located
               Salgado alive but have made no arrests thus far. Interior Secretary Luisa Maria
               Alcalde said during the September 11 presidential press conference there was a
               pattern of attacks against prosecutors in Guerrero in recent months, which was
               related to recent law enforcement arrests and seizures.

               fS8t:ij Guadalajara Mayor Launches Gubernatorial Campaign

               10. f5i:H::li Guadalajara Mayor Pablo Lemus (MC) launched his campaign for Jalisco
               governor during his second annual mayoral address on September 12. "I want to
               ask for your support to build a social and collective project," Lemus announced.
               He called for party unity, and specifically welcomed MC national coordinator
               Dante Delgado's representative despite the rift that emerged in August between
               Jalisco MC and the national party (ref C). Jalisco Governor Enrique Alfaro, Nuevo
               Leon Governor Samuel Garcia, Monterrey Mayor Luis Donaldo Colosio, and other
               MC leaders from Jalisco and Nuevo Leon (the two states MC governs) all attended
               the event. Lemus highlighted the presence of former Jalisco Governor Emilio
               Gonzalez (National Action Party - PAN) and University of Guadalajara (UdeG)
               Rector Ricardo Villanueva (Hagamos, affiliated with UdeG). Polls show Lemus
               holds a commanding lead over rivals from across the political spectrum.

               (U) Mexican Congress Hears Testimony on Alien Life

               11. (U) Congress heard testimony on unidentified aerial phenomenon (UAP)
               September 12, from experts including from Mexican journalist Jaime Maussan
               and former U.S. Navy pilot Ryan Graves, who previously testified before the U.S.
               Congress. The hearing was to debate language on UAP in the Aerial Space
               Protection Law which, if approved, would make Mexico the first country to
               formally acknowledge the presence of alien life on Earth. Experts asked
               legislators to recognize UAP, guarantee airspace securit y, and allow UAP to be
               studied. Experts also presented to Congress two alleged alien corpses and videos
               of Mexican pilots' encounters with fast-moving flying objects during flight. After




                                         I Released in Fulll

UNCLASSIFIED                                                                                        Page5of7
UNCLASSIFIED




               the hearing, Graves lamented the display took away from his and other pilots'
               experiences with UAP and expressed disappointment with Maussan's
               "unsubstantiated stunt." Scientists have discredited previous alleged alien
               corpses Maussan presented as evidence of alien life.




               (U) Figure 1: Mexican journalist Jaime Maussan presented t he alleged remains of non-human beings to
                                                  Congress. (Photo credit: Reuters)




                Signature:         SALAZAR


                Drafted By:        MEXICO:Moreno, Sergio A
                                   POL:Cortazar, Eduardo
                                   POL:Karimi, Amanda
                                    EXEC:Tejeda, Maria de los Angeles
                Cleared By:        POL:Naranjo, Brian
                                   POL:Karimi, Amanda
                                    ECON:Conlon, Steven
                                   PD:Harder, J
                                    INL/PROG:Okwuje, lfeoma
                                   CONS/AG:Bernsteen, Gregory
                Approved By:        EXEC:Johnson, Mark




                                                    I Released in Fulll

UNCLASSIFIED                                                                                                          Page6of7
UNCLASSIFIED




               Released By:   MEXICO:Moreno, Sergio A
               Info:          NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL WASHINGTON DC Routine; WHITE HOUSE
                              OFC OF THE VICE PRESIDENT WASHINGTON DC Routine; DNI
                              WASHINGTON DC Routine; CIA WASHINGTON DC Routine; DIA
                              WASHINGTON DC Routine; HQ USNORTHCOM Routine; DEPT OF
                              HOMELAND SECURITY WASHINGTON DC Routine; DEPT OF JUSTICE
                              WASHINGTON DC Routine; HQ USSOUTHCOM MIAMI FL Routine; WESTERN
                              HEMISPHERIC AFFAIRS DIPL POSTS Routine; ALL US CONSULATES IN
                              MEXICO COLLECTIVE Routine
               XMT:           CARACAS,AMEMBASSY


                                                UNCLASSIFIED
                                                        SBtj




                                           Released in Full


UNCLASSIFIED                                                                                   Page?of?
