le

de

ke

le
16.

19.

21.

CHECK*LISI - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

Date 18 February 1948 Incidont # 101

Time 5:01 P.M

Location Norcatur, “ansas

amo of observer M, BR, Srehbiel account (taken from newspaper)
Occupation of obsorvor Editor

Address of observor Norton, Kansas

Placo of observation Norcatur, Kansas

Nunbor of objocts “ne

Distance of object from obsorver N/S

Timo in sight N/S

Altitude 30 = 35 miles above earth

Speed N/S

Diroction of flight N/S_

Tactics N/S

Sound One big explosion - "afterwards a lot of little explosions"
Sizo N/S

Color Bluish-white smoke smudge

Shepo Mushroom

Odor dotectod N/S

Apparent construction Meteor

Exhaust trails yews) Blui sh~ te smoke smudge

Woathor conditions '/s
Effoct on clouds N/S
Skotches or photographs Photo of vapor trail left in sky by explosion

Manner of disappearance Disintegration

Romarks: Oscar Monnig, of the Tex.s Obsevvers, Amateur Astronomy, 1010
Morningside Drive, Ft. Worth, “ffers "tangible proof that the fireball

of February 18 over narthern Kansas was just that, inasmuch as meteorites
have been recovered from it." There were found, beginning April 2), first
several smaller fragments up to one of 1/2 pounds. ‘Then a disturbed
spot in a clover field led to the digging up of a piece of some 109 pounds
embedded about two feet in the soil. The stone is what is termed as an
"achondrite", a technical name for an unusual type of stony meteorite.

It is reported to be of a type which will deteriorate rapidly.

A photograph of the trail of the meteor, made by amateur photographer
Duane W. Wray of Norton, shows the vapor trail left in the sky by the
explosion of a meteor which was seen in Oklahoma, New “exico, Colorado,
Kansas, and “ebraska. It was made at Wray's home, nine miles north of
Norton, just four minutes after the meteor exploded. A smudge of blue-
white smoke remained in the sky for an hour February 18th. This photo-
graph is in file under Incident #101,

Further remarks are contained in supplement.

-
+

~~.

* ® e a
A : EXHIBIT B ;
Statement taken from Leland Sammons

My name is Leland Sammons, and I live on a farm 14 miles west of Stockton
and 1 mile north, off US 2h. ’

On February 18 at about 5 P.M., I was standing near my hog=pen about 100!
east of my house, when I heard the pheasants raising a disturbance and the
chickens all rushed to the chicken-house. I looked around toward the house
to see what was causing it and saw something hovering just above the house.

I ran towardthe house, ami it then lowered over the north end of the house
and settled toward the ground. Iwas then very near it, approximately 6!
when it stopped about level with my face, and just wobbled around for an
instant, fire belching out of it and sucking back in, The thing was about

4" long, shaped something like a funnel. There was a pipe sticking out the
back of it, and once as it wobbled around, the pipe was sticking right at

my belly. Suddenly there was a lot of sparks showered from it, and the fire
increased as if a fuse might have lighted, and it took off in a north-westerly
direction very fast, gaining altituie as it went. My wife heard it leave and
ran out where I stood, and we watched it go, leaving a trail of smoke all the
way. Suddenly there was a great cloud of smoke in the sky, not more than

40 seconds after it left my yard, and in a few seconds or more, we heard an
explosion. I then stepped off from my house to where it had been, and it

was five steps. Yes, it was hot, I could feel the hear from it. Had I not
been washing my car prior to the occurrence, wetting the ground, there would
have been a bare spot in the yard where the thing started up because there was
a@ great rush of fire from it when it left. It must have been quite high when
it exploded.

Kenneth “ays, son of Floyd Hays, 14 miles east of Norton on US 36, at the Jct.
of K-60, south side of highway; At about 5 to 5:30 P.M., not sure of time,

was riding his horse in a pasture, when -he heard something queer in the sky.
Looking up to the south-west, he saw what appeared to him to be a rocket,

just like he had seen duing the war in Europe. It startled him, and he

jumped off the horse. He then remounted, watched its course, almost on

a level but losing altitude a little, and it then exploded with a big cloud

of smoke, apparently over Norton, from where he was, south of Prairie View.

He rode on toward home a ways, when suddenly the sound and jar of the explosion
reached him. Mrs. Hays was home in the house, when she heard and felt something
like a truck might have struck the house. She ran out of the house and then
first saw the huge cloud of smoke. About 0 minutes later, a part of the
smoke clowi dirfted directly over their house, and went on east over
Phillipsburg.

Ralph New, postmaster at Norcatur, stated that at about :50 P.M, he was
standing just inside the front window of the postoffice in Norcatur, when

he observed a blinding flash as if someone had taken a flashlight picture.
He could locate no one with a camera, but noticed several men walking to the
center of the street and looking up. He then walked out to where they were
and looking up, saw a high cloud of smoke in the sky almost diredtly overhead

'
:

(COPY)
Ad e

323 W. Tenth St.,
Pueblo, Colorado
February 20, 196

Office of the Chief, of Staff

~ U. S. Army

Washington, D. C.

Subject: Explosion in the sky near Norcatur, “ans.
4200 p.m, (MST) February 18, 1948

Purpose: To call attention to some peculiarities
in comection, whether coincidental @ not

According to an AP bulletin appearing in the Pueblo CHIEFTAIN
for February 18, 1918, some object was seen moving eastward
across the sky on the late afternoon of February 1th, and
when this thing reached a position approximate to Norcatur,
Kansas, exploded, or disrupted, or disappeared. The ex-
plosion is said to have been terrific.

Directions given as to the progress of this appearance in-
dicate that it moved from west to east.

Information contained in the dispatch under a Denver dateline
indicate that while many would call this object a bolide -
e@.g-, exploding meteor - the astronomers of Chamberlin
Observatory (Denver) did not so assess it: it is said in
the dispatch that these officials could offer no explanation
of it. , s

If this is the case, the apparance is anomalous, and may lend
itself to other meteoric explanation.

A sketch-diagram of the earth and moon's orbit reveals a pe-
culiarity in connection with the appearance, which may be
significant.

Ig a line is stricken at right-angles across the meridional
position of the site of explosion of this meteor at hour

angle four o'clock (local time) and this line be considered
the west-to-east course of the object, then it will be seen
that if this lime is continued outward into space toward the
orbit of the moon it will intersect the lunar orbit at a

place near to where the moon would be at from 80 to one hundred
hours after the explosion took place.

New moon occurred at 9 D 10 H 2 M February; First Quarter

‘at 17D SH M, February — the moon moves approximately
. 12.5 degrees per day along its orbit.

1o/

It is held by rocketry experts (example, WILLY LEY - see
his ROCKETS, p. 192, diagram and note in connection there-
with) that it would take about 100 hours for a rocket-craft
to negotiate the distance from Earth to Moon.

Prior to its explosion over Norcatur, this object of Feb.
18th was variously reported 4s a "falling plane", a "jet
plane", and a “ball of fire". It is said by some to have
left a trail of smoke behind it.

It is the suggestion of this writer that the Army collect
and assimilate reports on this object, with a view to
determining where it was seen as an object trailing smoke
and where as a ball of fire.

If this thing is a rocket of some kind headed for the moon,
it might first have been seen as a streak of smoke, then
later as a ball of fire, and lastly as a tremendous ex-
plosion when it at last reached sufficient speed and eleva~
tion for take-off.

The writer has’in mind the various and wmexplained reports
on "flying saucers", and bases this speculation upon a
long consideration of various oddments of reports whose
significance might be of space-craft from other worlds of

space.

The so-called "meteoric procession" which crossed Toronto
in February 1913, consisted of a number of groups of
illimunated bodies traveling in groups of three and moving
in "rigid formation", all pursuing a course across the
same streak of the earth's surface. +f a line is projected
backward along ‘this line of flight it will be seen that
this line "comes out" at the position of the moon at the
time. The 1913 phenomenon occurred in the mid=period of
a series of reports on dirigible aircraft of appearance
like zeppelins which were seen over England and whose
appearance terminated - or reports on the appearances
stopped - just prior to the inferior conjunction of Venus
of April 2h, 1913.

The writer begs to call attention to the fact that the
times prior to and just after inferior conjunction of Venus
are prolific in reports of strange things seen in the sky.

Also that lights have been reported on the moon from time
to time, back for at least a century.

If in the future of military experiment the moon is selected
as a base for the launching of rockets (which has been

suggested by some writers), it may be well to look first

rol

wie Teen a

ety | r
d e

‘ March 1

FILE REF: - SIGGE-M-1 eanceR

From? : Norman G, Markham

; MAIN HOTEL, Pueblo, Colo
To: a Chief Signal Officer
A U. S. army, Washington, D.C.

Subject: - Norcatur, Kans., sky explosion
a4 of 18 February, 196

Purpose: To show a speculation regard~

ing the above phenomenon and

another one of earlier date

and to call attention to

occurrences between the two

which have an appearance of
= relationship whether coinci-
dental or not.

The geographical position of the Norcatur explosion suggests possible
linkage with other occurrences happening inside latitudinal limits arbitrarily
demarkable between 13° 36' North (which is the latitude of Boise, Idaho)
and 36° 10! North (the latitule of Nashville, Tenn.), a belt about 185
miles wide,

This suggestion is gained from positions given for occurrences
happening between June 2, 197 and February 18, 198, as sHall be
hereinafter briefly described.

THE BOISE (Idaho) OBJECT—-This was seen either beginning or ending at 330 pm
2h June 197 and was visible for 20 minutes. It was in the western sky,

was of comet-like appearance, and settled gradually toward the horizon as
planetary bodies set. It was seen by Lt. Gov. Whitehead and Chief Justice
Lampert. Its nature was unknom.

The peculiarity which connects this object, for speculative purposes, with
the explosion of some unknown object over Nor eatur, Kans., on 18 February
1948 is the seeming of a relationship between the positions of the moon for
the two phenomena:

In the former case the moon was at the date of phenomenon, about 7%, 63
before the positionof First Quarter; on the second case it was about 84.73
beyond the position of first quarter.

Since the Boise object was visible for 20 minutes before it sank this
argues it was about ten degrees above the horizon when first seen. Now
if a line be drawn westward and at ten degrees zenithward from the

pola
e &

horizon of Boise at 3:30 p.m. and another line be dram from the position
of the moon at one hundred hours before the sighting of the Boise object,
and projected to the center of the earth, it will be seen that this ten-
degrees-altitudé and the moon-earth line intersect as a place far above
a geographical position considerably to the west of Cape Blance, in the
neighborhoodof about 700 miles off the coast.

The Boise object in its appearance suggests a rocket-typeof craft possibly
using reaction blasts to brake itself down for a landing on the earth,

The bright point and plumy tail of the description suggest this, as also
its apparent fixity in space,

HOLLE'S "SHIP IN FLAMES" —— Nine days after the sighting of the Boise ~-
object a forest lookout named Earl Holle saw at or soon after ):00 p.m.,
3rd July, 197, something he took to be a "tanker in flames", This was |
seen horizon-ward from a point in Sonoma County, California, near to Fort
Ross. A search was instituted by the Navy or Coast Guard, and nothing was
found. The soviet tanker ELBRUZ, which had been in the vicinity, was
queried and found to be allright. This was not explained.

Ig this apperance had been on the horizon, there is no telling how far
it may have been from the observer.

CAPE MENDOCINO BLIMP INCIDENT — Not far from the location of Holle's
"burning ship" an accident occurred to a navy blimp, 1; July 197, off Cape
Mendocino.

This blimp suddenly settled into the water, slipped out its crew and rose
again.

The anomaly here is that one would not expect to find drastic dom-drafts
of such violence as to thus upset a lighter than air craft. Possibly a
downdraft accounted for the accident - but if the Signal Officer will look
up the incident of the British steamer Talma which, at'the time of the
sighting of a luminous wheel-like phenomenon in the Gulf of Martaban,
reported a slowing of the engines from some unknown cause, it may be seen
that possibly forces are generated in some manner by certain unknown
objects at times in the ocean, which may have physical attraction for
material objects. This blimp accident occurring in.waters where occurred
other phenomena shortly to be mentioned, seems to have a doubtful side

to it.

THE QAKIAND OBJECT — Early on the morning of 13th October, 1947, a >
photographer named Ben Dobus togehter with a taxidriver named A. J,
Goldman saw a thing "that looked like Saturn with a ring around it."

It shot at terrific speed WESTWARD across the sky of the Bay area, and was
seen shortly after midnight.

“This may have been heading in the general direction of what may have been
the goal of two later objects which roughly resemble it in description.

THE TICONDEROGA OBJECTS -— According to the tanker Ticonderoga's

second officer, two "flying discs" were seen heading SOUTHWEST when the
ship was in 3 degrees fifteen minutes north and 12) degrees 5 minutes
west, at 0620 GCT, 12th November 197.

These may have been heading for the object seen in the Pacific off the
Golden Gate, not long afterward - or possibly at the same time, if earlier
reports on this are consulted. -

THE PHANTOM REEF — On November 2), 197, the Navy denied that it had
found a phantom reef or other obstruction to navigation at a point about
400 miles west of San Francisco, The Navay Survey ship MAURY, sent out
there in response to reports of ships that some hugh object had been
seen in the water in that neighborhood, reported that when in the
approximate 1 titude and longitude of the supposed obstruction they
picked up an echo from something in the water 1600 yards from the

ship; but that when they had steamed to within 00 yards of this, the
echo vanished,

There seems a possible connectability between the various elements so
far considered.

Later on January 7, 1948, there were occurrences in the neighborhood of
Wilmington, 0., Ft. Knox, Ky., Franklin, Ky., and Nashville, Tenn., all of
which must be now familiar to the archivists of the Signal Office.

Something like a "flying disc" was pursued by one Lt, Mmtell ani two
other pilots, “antel being killed while in the process of attempting to
gain altitude to get close to whatever it was he was chasing.

Also, in this connection, it may not be amiss to mention the deaths of

two military officers who were said to have been bringing back material
evidence from "flying discs" one of which was said to have met with some kind
of accident over “Maury Island, Puget Sound, around June, 19147.

It will be seen on inspection that the geographical locales of these
incidents fit inside the belt of latitwies hereinbefore mentioned.

THE NORCATUR EXPLOSION was described in a previous letter of this
writer, and it was show in that letter that a line tangential to the
meridian of Norcatur, Kans., at hour-angle 2:20 p.m., would if con-
tinued outward into space to the orbit of the moon, intersect the
moon's orbit at a point where the moon would have been at about 100
hours after the time of the explosion.

According to rocketry theory, it would take a reaction-propelled
craft of the rocket type about 100 hours to reach the moon,

% \

I submit there is a likelihood that on June 2, 197, something like a

space~ship came here from the moon and upon February 18, 198, returned
to the noon.

’

This is of course speculation.

But has anyone yet explained the "flying discs" in terms of all the
pretty-well proven facts in connection with them?

Has anyone yet devised a fuel powerful enough to kick a rocket from
Earth to the Moon?

There have been hundreds of reports, during the past century, on
occurrences which imply this world is visited from outside space.
Absence of contact by these postulatable visiting entities may imply a
state of culture far beyond ours, to the point where it would be inex-
pedient for their members to have to do with us en-masse,

These reports have never been seriously considered by science, which MG
in general ignores them,

However, according to Dr. Rocht of Chamberlin Observatory, Denver, there

is nothing in astronomy to explain the thing which exploded over Norcatur.
Dr. Nininger's idea that the ‘thing was a meteor flatly disregards Dr, Rocht's
opinion, which may have been based on the Denver Posts' statement that a
Denver woman saw the Norcatur object twenty minutes before the explosion
occurred,

I submit that the Army needs men who are capable of recognizing the anomalies
beforementioned when they occur, evenif only to aid in speculation regarding
them.

The undersigned offers his services to that end, if the Army may wish to
avail itself of them,

/s/ N. G. MARKHAM

: e &

Excerpt of letter dated April 11, 1948 from Dr, Lincoln LaPaz, Director,
Institute of Meteoritics, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, New
Mexico, to the Deputy Executive Director, Committee on Geophysical
Sciences, Research and Development Board: .

Tank you for the surprising documents sent me under date of March
30. As you remark, certain aspects of Markham's letters are fantastic
(for example: (1) the fireball procession of 1913, February 9, was
genuinely meteoric, although a rare type of chain fall; (2) no astronomer
could take seriously Markham's “invasion by beings from Venus or the Moon"=
theory: (3) he appeals to, and biases in his favor, such untrustworthy
evidence as newspaper stories, e.g., the absurd statement attributed to
Dr. Rocht of the Chamberlin Observatory). Neventheless, Markham is justi-
fied in calling attention to certain incidents as wmexplained, for e: le,
the "flying lenses" (in my opinion 99% hoax and imagination and 1% foal):

As regards the Norcatur, Kansas incident, I remain convinced that,
like the Four Corners incident, it was a genuine meteorite fall, although
one of exceptional size (again like the Four Corners fall), However,
there are many curious aspects of both these falls, some of an objective
nature, like the singular fact that in spite of intensive searches (ad-
mittedly under bad terrain and weather conditions), not a trace of meteoritic
material has so far been found; some of a non-objective nature, like the
amazing testimony given b y Mr. Leland Sammons, Mr. Alfred Glem, and other
witnesses of the Norcatur incident, both to members of the State Highway
Commission of Kansas and to Institute of Meteoritics field survey parties.
(See exhibits A, -B,-ami C enclosed. )

Some comment on such testimony as appears in A,B, and C would seem
desirable: /

1. Glenn first reported the battery case as red hot. When I pointed
out that the paper on it was not charred, his account was changed to
"too hot to handle". ‘The Institute of Meteorities party found only two
men, not four, who saw the battery case fall. The battery case has been
examined by Dr. Victor Regener, Department of Physics, University of
New Mexico, who states that it appears to be identical with the small
batteries used in portable radios.

2. K. Hays' identification of the Norcatur object as a rocket has
the following support: On the moming of February 19, I talked to the
towerman and two assistants at the Air Base at McCook Field, Nebraska.
All three denied the Norcatur object was a fireball and described it as
a black object with an extremely bright jet of flame pouring out of the
rear. Furthermore, a lj-year old, and presumably unbiased, schoolgirl
in Oberlin, Kansas wrote me a similar description of the "Fireball."

ay

3. A determined effort is under way to check up on Sammons' veracity
(and sanity!) I have neither seen nor talked to Sammons, but another member
of the Institute of Meteoritics party (Dr. D. M. Gragg, an Instructor in the
Department of Mathematics) who did so believes Sammons (who is a well-to-dO
farmer) to be sincere and very badly scared. Of course nearness to a big
meteorite fall would scare one as badly as an atom bomb; but how could it
produce such testimony as Sammons".

The "meteoritic" incidents from the great fall of 1945, November 29
(from which no meteorites have been recovered either!) through the sequence
of similar falls culminating in the Four Corners and Norcatur incidents,
coupled with such t ings as the Ussuri incident, convince me that either
the earth is under a most unusual cosmic bombardment or many of the
fireballs are not meteorites at all. While I still cling to the meteoritic
hypothesis, it is clear that which ever alternative is the right one, thé
situation cries aloud for thorough investigation.

&
. EXHIBIT A e
Roy W. Cox, Director of Highways
STATE HIGHWAY COMMISSI ON
OF KANSAS
_ Division 3
Norton

NOTES TAKEN AT NORCATUR, KANSAS, Night of Feb 18

Mr. Ralph New, Postmaster at Norcatur, tells us that at approximately :50 PM
he was standing in the north window of the post office in Noreatur looking
toward the City 4all when he was suidenly illuminated very brightly by some
terrific light.

He ran outside into the street where others were lookirig toward the northeast
at a very large clowi of white smoke high in the sky. He stated that in about
a minute and a half, there was a terrific explosion followed by a heavy
rumbling noise like thunder and that the smoke cloud was growing larger all

the time. Also there was a white smoke trail in the sky from the southwest
where the missile had come from.

He said that from the ceriter of the street, the explosion ami the first big
mushroom of smoke was directly overhead and at a tremendous height.

Another man in Norecatur stated that just prior to the explosion, he had heard
the motors of an airplane.

Chief Scott learned: from some man in Norton that just following the explosion,
something fell at his feet on the street and he picked it up, to find that it
was a small flashlight battery resembling those used in ‘fountain pen
flashlights' and that it was red hot. After a crowd of men gathered and
examined it, he was unable to findit ami thinks that someone took it.

Kenneth Hays of east of “orton was about 5 miles south of Prairie View when
he heard something roaring in the sky to the west of him, far away and very
high. He says that it resembled a rocket traveling northeast toward Norton
direction, and that suddenly there was a terrific explosion followed by a
mushroom of white smoke andthat there followed other explosions or something
resembling explosions. When he saw it, it was nearing the ground or horizon,
in other words, losing altituie.

Edgar Young's boy at Reager, was standing beside the Reager elevator and heard
something high over head, looked up to see a very bright flash of light and
then a lowi explosion followed by a big clow of smoke,

The airport at Norton thought about 20,000 feet, time 4:50. Checked but no
planes missing. i

=~

eS

« but slightly east. Suddenly, about 1 and'1/2 minutes after he had seen the
flash, there was a terrific explosion ani jar, shaking the ground and causing
the windows all around to rattle. Following the explosion, there were several
lowi reverberating rumblings across the heavens. He- stated that the explosion
must have been very high.

pe

Edgar a boy living at Regar, just east of Norcatur, was outside the
elevator, he observed the explosion, looked up and saw the huge cloud
of smoke. He stated that it was almost overhead but slightly west of him.
He said that it was a big explosion. The elevator man was out in the
elevator, when he heard the explosion. He + ought that his oil-burner had
exploded in the office and ran in to see about it. Finding it 0.K., he ran
outside to see what had exploded, saw the big cloud of smoke high overhead,
slightly west.

®

Eastern Kansas newspaper carried a story about 6 days ago of one just
like this one, coming from the south to vicinity‘of Iola, Kansas, where it
turned west and disappeared into the sky,

Check with Chief Scott of Norton about a burned flashlight battery
which fellin the street of Norton just after the explosion. It was too
hot to be picked up for several minutes. Chief Scott has it.

Note: A copy of Exhibit "C" referred to in letter from Dr, LaPaz, was
not received.

le
2.
Be
he

25.
26.

ww
CHECK=-LIST ~ UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS
Incident # 102

Date 18 Fetruary 19)8
Time 1500 MST

Locetion itmemmtixgxiameme Air Nea Green River, Utah
Name of observor Lenord P, Marchese (B-29 Pilot, lt, 28 Bomber Op)
Carl W. Stueki, lt., Co-Pilot, (see reverse side
Occupation of obsorvor Pilot for other witnesses)
Address of observor 77th Bomb Sq, 28th Bomb Gp (VH), Weaver AFB, S.D.
Placo of obsorvetion 39°N = 100°W - near Green River, Utah
Numbor of objocts One
Distance of object from obsorvor 100 miles
Timo in sight N/S
Altitude 20,000 feet
Speod Very high
Direction of flight Southeast of Limon, Colorado
Tactics Explosion rate
Sound Could not be determined due to- B-29 engine noise
Size Huge
Color Multicolored ball of fire
ShapoHuge multi-colored ball of fire and dense cloud of smoke
Odor dotectod N/S
Apparent construction N/S
Exhaust trails Vapor trail with ball of fire at head of trail a
Woathor conditions Clear
Effoct on clouds N/S
Skotehes or photographs None :
Mannor of disappoarance N/s
Romarks:  GMaX Over

A buge mlti-colored ball of fire trailing a dense cloud of smoke
was sighted at 1500 hours MST 18 Feb 4g, B-100° Wat
approx 20,000 * ie tes S009 givecett at cee Cok @ment Group (YH),

Witnesses: t Howard H, Berodt, AO-49504, 7isth
‘th Bomb Gp (VE). Pilot of lst Bu29

t Meurice T. Ritenour, A0-'043, 718th Bomb
“Bson oo (Wa). Co-Pilet of 1a Bog .

ist Lt Leonard P. Marchese, 40~748714, 77th Bomb
+» 28th Bomb Gp (WH), Pilot of 2na B-29

lst Lt. Cerl W. Stucki, A0-' 6, 77th Bomb
“beth Bomb Gp (VH). CoPilot oe pu B29, ies

NOTE: See Incident 101 - Norcatur Kansas,

Bomb Sq

17.
18.
19.

20.

eSTRICTES

CHECK=LIST = UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS = -
Date 18 February 1948 Ancidont # 103
Time 1500 MST

Locetion jioaanempodagcoux Be near Green River Utah ;

Name of bhservers Capt. How; H, Berodt - Capt Maurice T. Ritenour
See Inc 102 - corrébrati

Occupation of obsorvor Pilots

Address of observor 718th Bomb Sq, 28th Bomb Gp (VH) Weaver AFB, s.D.

Placo of observation 39°N -100°W - Near Green River, Utah

Numbor of obyeene ®ne

Distance of objoct from obsorver 100 miles

Timo in sight N/S

Altitude 20,000 feet

Speed Very high ;

Direction of flight Southeast (of limon, Colorado)

Tactics Explosion rate

Sound Could not be determined due to B-29 engine noise

Sizo Huge (Seen 100 miles west of the B-29's)

Color Multi-colored ball of fire”

Shapo Hugh milti-colored ball of fire and dense cloud of smoke followed

Odor dotectoa N/S

Apparent construction N/S

Exhaust trails Vapor trail with a pall of fire at the head of trail

Woathor conditions Clear

Effoct on clouds N/S

Sketches or photographs None

Manner of disappearance N/S

Romarks: Wome - Same as incident 102 which see

le
2.
Be
he
5.
66
Te
8.
De
10,
hz
12.
13.
1h.
15.
16.
17.
18,
19.
20.
ex,
22,

236

25.6
26.

4

eRESTRICTED

CHECK=LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

Date 7 Mer ug Incidont # 104
Time | 2055 ¢
Location Suyrna, Tenn,
amo of observor Frank L, Fi ©O, Smyrna AF Base
pi Richard G. Pettingill @ Prt Frouk C. Johnson,

Occupation of obsorvors CO of Smyrna & radio and tower operators
Address of observor PS gets Smyrna, Tenn

Placo of obsorvation Smyrna AAF - 6 miles from (ground)

Numbor of objocts] .

Distance of object from obsorvor 6 miles

Timo in sight 45 mimtes
Altitudo About 5° above horizon
Speed very slow

Direction of flight WNW awey from Smyrna

Tactics N/S Faded away

Sound “Bone

Sizo Unknown

Color yellow-orange

Shapo oval .

Odor dotectoa B/S

Apparent construction n/s ~ seemed to be flare

Exhaust trails None

Woathor conditions CAVU - 10 miles

Effoct on clouds x/s |
Sketches or photographs Fige (2) showing yellow orange flame-like oval
Manner of disappoarance faded into horizon

Romarks + (over)

1h.

15.
16.
= 17.

18.

CHECK=LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

pote 8 Mor Ineidont # 105

Time 1100

Location Belmont, N. C,

Namo of observor Mr. A, ©, Morrieon

Occupation of obsorvor Supt. Meter Dept, Duke Power Co., Charlotte, MN. C,
Address of obsorvor Charlotte, N. C. (Duke Power Co.)

Placo of obsorvation . Belmont, NW. C. (Sighted from ground)

Numbor of objocts 1

Distance of object from observer n/s
Timo in sight about 10 seconis
Altitude N/S - could not be estimated
Speoa Around 600 MPH ;
Hisgeeton\'# flight Easterly

Tactics None = moved in straight line at constant speed without
change in altitude or direction

Sound Mone

Sizo’ From a distance - that of a small coin
Color bright or silver - looked metallic

Shapo round or sphere (unable to determing which)
Odor dotectod B/S.

Apparent construction Metallic

Exhaust trails None

Woathor conditions Clear with scattered white clouds
Effoct on clouds 3/s f
Skotches or photographs None

Manner of disappoaranco behind small white cloud

Romarks: (over)

-

SESTR

f

A round metallic-appesring object moving idly at an estimated
speed of: 600 MPH was observed near Belmont, ¥. C, at 1100

the morning of & Mar 48, The weather was clear with excellent visibility
with a few small scattered fleecy white clouds. It could not be
determined if the object. were a disc or sphere, Its @ppargnt size was
that of a small coin of a bright or silver color. It reflected the sun
maintaining a steady reflection which did not flicker, The object which
was under observation for some 10 seconds was on an easterly heading and
moved in a straight line at a constant speed without @pparent change in
altitude or direction, It was impossible to determine the altitude but
it was mving above the clouds, No sound of any kind was heard nor was
any exhaust trail observed,

NOTE: Witness (lr Morrison) is a man of excellent character and reputation,
a first-grade engineer and employee of Duke Power Co for some 30
yeers, He impressed the agent as being conservative and sound
and is a technical man with a very technical and responsible position.

Mr. Morrison was careful in his statements, He does not claim
he saw the "flying disc' merely skig claiming that they saw

an object which they could not identify with any natural phenomenon
or known type of aircraft. It resembled "a round metallic

appearing object moving very rapidly."

Witnesses: Mr, Hendrix, assistant Superintendent, Meter Dept
Duke Power Co., Charlotte, N. C.
Mr. G. W. Jordan, Gastonia Hlectric Co.,
Gastonia, WN. C,

bat

r

le
2.
de

es

10.
ll.
12.

3

13.

1h.

Worse bEyE

[> Rama

a

epevu § US tics

& A

CHECK*LIST = UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

Date 5 March 1948
Time 1610 = 1655
Location Bakersfield, California
Namo of observer George L. Buchner

Oceupation of obsorvor N/S

Incidont # 106

Address of observor Bakersfield, California

Placo of obsorwtion From ground, gouthwest toward Buena Vista Lake,Calif,

Numbor of objocts Two

Distance of object from obsorvor
Timo in sight N/S

Altitude N/S

Spood N/S

Direction of flight Earthward
Tactics N/S

Sound N/S

Size n/S

10 - 12 miles

Color Seemingly on fire, black and red smoke trailing behind

Sheapo Similar to falling aircraft
Odor dotectod N/S

Apparent construction N/S

Exhaust trails Browmish-white smoke and debris trailing

Woathor conditions N/S

FE Or fh

Effoct on clouds N/S

Sketches or photographs None

A FP a g=

Manner of disappoaranco Behind a water tower, which was an obstruction
to the view

Romarks: Gomments of G. L. Buckner and other witnesses to this

sighting contained in attached supplement.

el > XG = Pe Fam ae.
: CCGNT dUS EO 2 oA

HEADQUARTERS FOURTH AIR FORCE
Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff, A-2
Intelligence
Hamilton Field, California

hAFDA~3/1208-1
SUBJECT: Investigation of Flying Disc. Mar 11, 191%

10: Chief of Staff
United States Air Forces
Washington, D, C,
ATIN: DIRECTORATE OF INTELLIGENCE
Air Intelligence Requirements Branch *

1. Incident seperted on 9 March 198, this headquarters, per telephone
call from Sgt A. M. “arsen, Sheriff's office, Bakersfield, California,

/
/ a. “bservation by Mr, (George L) Les Buchner, Bakersfield, Califomia,
/ pf two objects falling to earth from unknown source on 5 March 1948 between
1610 and 1655 hours. Description of objects similar to falling aircraft
with smoke and debris trailing. Observation made at Bakersfield with objects
sighted southwest toward Buena’ Vista Lake, California,

b. Observation by Mr. Denio, employee of the Pacific General Elect, ic
Company, Bakersfield, California, of two objects which fell to earth from ~
unknown source north of Bakersfield, California, § March 198, One object
seemed to be on fire with red and black smoke trailing behind.
io 2. Informant Larsen stated that searching parties, aircraft and rescue
~“ units have made numerous attempts to locate these reported objects without
success.

3. Investigation of incident has been initiated by this headquarters.
Report will follow.

/s/ Donald L. Springer

DONALD L. SPRINGER

. It. Colonel, USAF
AC of S, A-2

Information to:
ADC, Mitchel Fld, N.Y.
FBI, San Francisco
G-2, Sixth Army
DIO, San Francisco (12th Nav.Dist)

o out

™ OX is] Sy
ae ‘oe x)
HEADQUARTERS FOURTH AIR FORCE
Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff
Intelligence

Hamilton Field, California

4aFDA-3 /1208-1
SUBJECT: Investigation of Flying Discs
SUMMARY OF INFORMATION: |

Information from the Sheriff's Office, Bakersfield, California, revealed
that numerous calls from residents in Bakersfield concerning peculiar objects
in the sky over Bakersfield, predicated an investigation by their office and
contact with A-2 Headquarters Fourth Air Force,

H. B, Nix, stated that they observed a flying object which appeared to be
consumed in fire, ani left a bromish-white plume of smoke, which suddenly
stopped and disappeared. Seconds later, what appeared to be a wrachute,
was seen to be drifting to the east.

The object, as described, appeared to be a burning fabric airplane,
consumed in smoke, Observations were made in Bakersfield of object to
the south and southwest, approximately ten to twelve miles distance, around
1600 hours on 5 March 19148.

ff On 13th March 198, two informants, Mr. George L. Buchner, and “r.

“* On 13th March 1948, informant, Mr. H. B, Nix, stated that he observed
an object at 0830, & March 198, due north of Bakersfield, approximately five
K miles distance. ‘The object was a large, orange-red ball of fire, somewhat
larger than a small airplane, appeared to remain static for approximately
thirty seconds, then split and continued to burn; each visible as a burning
half, A parachute, with a black object hanging was then observed to fall,
\ drift to the east and disappeared into*the hills east of Bakersfield.

oe On 13th March 1948, two informants, Mrs, Callie R. “ason, secretary,

Haberfelde Building, Bakersfield, California, and Dr. J, =, Johnson, dentist

Haberfelde Building, Bakersfield, California, stated that they were in

(\{ Room 518, Haberfelde Building, on the morning of 9 March 1048, Mrs. Mason

was a patient of Dr. Johnson. Hoth informants stated that they observed a

) flaming object which appeared at first to be a very small airplane. Orange
red flames seemed to envelope the cbject with considerable black smoke
trailing in a zigzag manner for approximately ),000 to 5,000 feet. The

object was observed at 1,000 feet, approximtely due north of Bakersfield,
seven to ten miles distant at approximtely 0830 hours.

Informants further stated that the object disappeared behind a water
tower, which was an obstruction to their view, and was near the ground.
Both informants watched for an explosion, thinking that it would explode
upon reaching the ground, but nothing wmusual was noted,

AAPIE
Wwwini

Arana
Eolw@ & oak.

ue

© RESTRIOTED

de
2.
36
he
5e
by
Te
8.
De
10.
BSS
12.
1.
lh.
15.
16.

17.

CHECK-LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS
Date 8 March 19h8 Speidont #107
Time N/S
Location Bakersfield, California
wade of observor Mr. Denio
Occupation of obsorvor Paeific General Electric Company employee
Address of observor N/S
Placo of observation Sighted from ground
Numbor of objects Two :
Distance of objoct from observer N/S
Timo in sight N/S
Altitude N/S
Spood N/S
Direction of flight Earthward
Tactics nfs
Sound N/S
Sizo N/S
Color One object seemingly afire, red and black smoke trailing
Shapo N/S :
Odor dotected N/S
Apparent construction N/S
Exhaust trails N/S

Woathor conditions N/S Pa

Effoct on clouds N/S G ‘

Sketches or photographs None
Manner of disappoarance WYS Fell to earth

Romarks: See supplement to Incident #106,

20.

ENE

CHECK=LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

Dato 8 March 1948 :

Time 0830

Location Bakersfield, California

Name of observer H, B. Nix

Occupation of observer N/S

Address of observor N/S

Placo of obsorvation Sighted from ground
Numbor of objocts Une

Distance of objoct from obsorver 5 miles

Incidont # 108

Timo in sight Approx. 30 seconds before splitting and burning

Altitude N/S

Speod Static for approx 30 seconds, and then drifting

Diroction of flight eastward
Tactics N/S

Sound N/S

Sizo Larger than a small airplane
Color Orange-red ball of fire
Shapo Ball

Odor dotected N/S

Apparent construction N/S
Exhaust trails N/S

Woathor conditions N/S
Effoct on clouds N/S

Sketches or photographs None

Manner of disappearance Drifted to the east into the hills east of

Bakersfield
Romarks: See supplement to Incident #106

le
26
Be
he
De
oe
Te
8.
Ie
10.
ll.
12.
13.
ihe
15.
16.
17.

CHECK=LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS
Date 9 March 19h8 Incidont #109
Time "0830
Location Bakersfield, California
Name of observers J,E, Johnson and Mrs. Callie R, Mason
Occupation of obsorvor J,E, Johnson, Dentist, Mrs. Mason, Secretary
Address of observor N/S
Placo of observation 5th Floor of business building
Numbor of objocts One
Distance of object from obsorvor 7 - 10 miles
Timo in sight N/S
Altitude 1000 feet
Speed N/S
Direction of flight Due north of Bakersfield
Tactics Zig-zaging
Souma N/S
Sizo Appearance of a very small airplane
Color Orange-red flame
Shapo Appearance of a very small airplane
Odor dotectod N/S
Apparent construction N/S
Exhaust trails Considerable black smoke trailing for 1000 to 5000 feet
Woathor gonditi ons N/s

Effoct on clouds N/S

RPECTPIOTEN

Sketches or photographs None

Manner of disappearance N/S
Romarks: See supplement to Incident #106

low.

gee

re

>» RESTRICTES =~"
MEADQURTERS STRATEGIC ATR COMM —A2B

Andrews Field
Washington 20, D. C,

sac 350 (29 Mar ys)” 29 March 1916

SUBJECT: Report of Unidentified Aerial Sounds.
?

TO: Chief of Staff
United States Air Force
Washington 25, D. Cc.
Attention: - Director of Intelligence

z .

1, The following is quoted from a copy of a letter, Baltimore
Office, FBI, addressed to the Director of Intelliyence, Second Army? .

"On March 23, 1948, an individual, who desired that her
identity be kept confidential, telephonically communicated with this
office and indicated that she is the wife of a former member of the
United States military forces, aml that she is presently active in
American Legion activities, but was emphatic in stating that she was
in no way hysterical or unduly apprehensive regarding present world
conditions. She did, however, wish to bring tothe attention of the
proper authorities that during the past six or eight weeks, on a
number of occasions between the hours of 3:00 and 5:00 A.M., she has
heard peculiar soufiding noises in the sky, which appear to come from
airplanes in the distance, but the sound is not the type of airplane
motor drone which isgenerally heard from American planes. She has
discussed the matter with her husband, and he believes that the sound
is more like that of a foreign type airplane. She recently discussed
this matter with an unidentified woman who lives in her neighborhood,

which is Hamilton, Baltimore, “aryland, ani this woman stated that she,

too, had heard the noise in question, and that her husband is also an
ex-G.I, and he has stated that the motors sounded like that of foreign
planes."

2. No action is contemplated by this headquarters,

FOR THE COMMANDING GENERAL: A

c/e furnished CG, —_ a
Attn: MCI, he
aa Asst Adj Gen

ae?

i:

le
26

3e

5.
6.

Te

De

10.
aes
12.
3.
1h.
15.
16.
17.

CHECK-LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS F
Date 23 March 1948 ‘ ig ee |
Time’ 0300 = 0500 ’
Location Baltimore (Hamilton) Maryland
Namo of observor Identity confidential

Occupation of obsorvorActive in American “egion activities
Address of obsorvor N/S

Placo of observation N/S

Numbor of objects Undetermined

Distance of objoct from obsorvor. N/S

Timo in sight Not sighted

Altitude N/S

Speod N/S \
Direction of flight N/S

Tactics N/S

Sound Motor drone of foreign type aircraft
Sizo N/S

Color N/S

Shapo N/S

Odor dotectod N/S

Apparent construction N/S

Exhaust trails N/S

Woathor conditions N/S

Effoct on clouds N/S
Skotches or photographs None

Manner of disappoarance N/S

Romarks: See Supplement

INCIDENT SUMMARY SHEET
filled out and retained in files)

Date of Observation LMpral 1948. . . Incident # 111
Time of Observation 0955 kre

Where was Object(s) Sighted Jau® 3? Mast, 12° 52! worth. -

Observer's Position . Sighted ohject fram planes Phillipine Islands. .
(i.e. ground, air, control tower, etc.)

Name and Address of Observer Je’ Zit. Robart 4 Meyers, G7th Fighter Sq. 1Sth .
Fighter Grow. .

Attention Attracted to Object (s) By App@ating dn Mue of sight during flight
Number of Object(s) Sighted 2.

Size of Object(s) same qpam 30 feat, length 20 feat .

Color of Object(s) Silver .

Shape (Sketch if ED ) A pt. mpon sowiy pe niin @ flying wing type .

Nature of Luminosity

Estimated Distance of Object from Observer . 3 miles

Spsed of Ghiect(s) 200 MPE, disappeared in 5 seconds Aniiéating creat
Time in Sight . Approximately. @ seconds

Tactics 90° deft turn, then level flight accelerating rapidly

Sound Made by Object(s) .

Direction of Flight of Object(s) . are?

Apparent Construction (Of What Material or Substance) . . 1...

Weather Conditions Existing a’

Pebuliarities Noted Sbjept, made a left. tarn,. leveled. ent on 4 =i —:
acpelerated ates and disappeared from sight.

ES of Incident 9m, Ist, AprAl, ab, 0955,. ist, Lt Meyers, was. leading. a flight
CN eS Se eae Os eee ee -s

(Attach a Separate Sheet it Additional Space is 5 Needed)

Meyers immediately started a left turn vi

ee more positively identify the

a left turn, the object mde a

a heading of 2. accelerated rapidly and ere pa
approxima te: seconds, There was no sound heard, and no
were observed. St the time of the sigh’ visibility ws
scattered cumilous, base 3000 feet, tons feet.

NOTE: Because of the distence from which the sighting was made, no

distinguishing festures, i.e. power units, landing gear, armanent or
cockpit were observed.

The interview with Lt. Meyers indicated that he is a reliable non-
excitable individual who appeared quite positive in his statements. He wes
the only witness to this incident as he could not contact his wing men i
Since his radio was out. Apparently the maneuvers performd by his three (3)
wing-men prevented their observation of the object.

ne
on

~*~

6

Q.
Be
he

De
oe.

Te

De

10.
1,

Tey.

1h.

cide

16.

17s

21.
22.
23.
ah.
256
26.

CHECK-LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

Date 8 Apr 4g Incidont # 2

Time 1400 - 1430

Location Ashley, Ohio

Namo of observer Miss Winifred Paines - Mrs. Bertha Slack

Occupation of obsorvor Méss Paines: Asst Bank Cashier; Mrs, Slack:
housekeeper

Address of observor 227 W High St., Ashley, 0.

Placo of observation Ashley, Ohio (ground) ii

Numbor of objocts 1

Distance of object from obsorvor "Quite a distance"

Timo in sight 4N/S

Altitude Could not estimate

Spood slow-moving bi

Direction of flight Southwest

Tactics No maneuvers

Sound N/S

Sizo undetermined

Color silver

Shapo Oblong, long and narrow - like silver streak

Odor dotectod y/s

Apparent construction n/s

Exhaust trails None

Woathor conditions Cleer, no clouds near object

Effoet on clouds N/S = no clouds near object

Skotches or photographs None

Mamer of disappoaranco y/s

Romarks: (over)

&
Witness thought she heerd plane which appesred to be flying low and making

an unusual amount of noise. Could not locate the plane but did see an

object oblong in shape and long end narrow which had the appeerance of a
silver streak, It was clearly outlined and moving slowly and steadily ina
southwesterly direction parallel to the ground and without changing direction.

Altitude and size were not estimated.
Note: See Incident #112a in which the plane was perceived flying low.

de
2.

Be

Se
6.
Te
8.
De
10.

The:

is
13.
1h.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.

20.

coe

eKRESTRUSCU

CHECK-LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

Date '§ April 1948 Incidont # 112a

Time 1400 = 1430 P

Ree Ashley, Onio

Namo of observer Mrs, “elah Stephens

Occupation of obsorvor Newspaper reporter

Kadepee of observer 226 West High Street, Ashley, Ohio
Placo of observation From the ground .

Numbor of objocts One

Distance of objoct from obsorver Not stated

Timo in sight Approximiely five minutes

Altitude Quite high

Speod Slow = dirfting

Diroction of flight \Southwesterly

Tactics -None .
Soumd None

Sizo Smaller than the airplane that was in view at the time
Color Opalescent - like mother of pearl

Shapo Long cylindrical body, like a stick of firewood
Odor dotectod None

Apparent construction N/S

Exhaust trails None

Woathor conditions Clear, few clowis in sky but non around object
Effoct on clouds N/S

Skotehes or photographs None

Manner of disappearance N/S Retin d

Romarks: A plane, which sounded as if it were flying low since there
was an exceptionally loud roaring noise,first attracted the attention

Se

this witness, She observed a large airplane, heading south, and about
same time also observed a strange object in the sky travelling slowly

a southwesterly direction, Witness first thought it was sky writing,

it looked like a streak; but later it became clearly outlined, appearing
be a long gylindrical body like a stick of firewood. “ith the sun shining
it, it . appeared opalescent, like mother of pearl. The object was much
higher, and quite a bit smaller than, the airplane, but drifted slowly along
after the airplane disappeared. It may have been drifting with the wind.

gcerga

jre

25.

CHECK=LIST = UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

Date 8 April 1948 _ Incidont #112p |

Time 1430

Location Delaware, Ohio

Namo of observor Mrs. James B. %tephenson

Occupation of obsorvor Housewife

Address of observer 93 North Franklin Street, Delaware, Ohio

Placo of observation From the ground ©

sNumbor of objocts One

Distance of objoct from obsorvor n/s
Timo in sight N/S

Altitude N/sS

Speod Slow

Diroction of flight Southwesterly
Tactics None

Soumd None

Sizo Very large - about the size of a full moon in height but much
smaller in width
Color Very white

Shepo Cylindrical, with vapor around the top

Odor dotectod N/S ~~
Apparent construction N/S

Exhaust trails None

Woathor conditions Clear, no clouds around object

Effoct on clouds N/S

Sketches or photographs, None

Manner of disappoarance N/S
Remarks: At 1430 Mrs. J. B, Stephenson's attention was | Renae from
her window by an object of unusual shape in the sky. Upon going outsid(

3?

ed very white, with no shadow@ tt all, was cylindrical
d the top. When first seen, it appeared to
be leaning 2+ an angle, and then right itself and move along "perpendicular" to the
ground. It appeared not to be moving at first, but upon a closer look it was seen
moving slowly in @ southwesterly direction, without sound or manueverings, and re~
maining at the same altitwie. ‘The weather was clear, and no exhaust trails were
seen. ‘the object seemed very large, about tbe size of a full moon in height, but
much smaller in width. Since + with, she could not

there was nothing to compare i
pe ‘sure of the size. No statement was made as to whether or not witness heard an
airplane.

to get a better view it ap}
in shape and seemed to have vapor aroun

33a

te
2.

Be

5.
Cr
Te

8.

10.
ll.
12%,
3.
1h.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19-
20.
21.
22.
23.

25.

26.

CHECK-LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS
Date § April 1948 Aneidont # 1320
Time 1430
Lotation Delaware, Vhio
Namo of observor Rev. “ames B, Stephenson
Occupation of obsorvor Pastor
Address of obsorvor 9% N. Franklin Street, Delaware, Ohio
Placo of obsorvaetion From the ground
Nunbor of objects One
Distanco of objoct from obsorvor N/S
Timo in sightN/S
Altitudon/s
Speod Slow
Direction of flight Southwesterly
Tactics None
Sound None
Sizo Not Stated
Color White
Shapo Verticle, larger at the bottom and narrow at the top
Odor dotectod None
Apparont construction N/S
Exhaust trails None
Woathor conditions Clear
Effoct on clouds N/S

Skotches or photographs None i
u

Manner of disappoarance N/S

Romarks: Witness first thought that object was a plane on fire, as
it was surrounded by a vaporous substance, A-plane-was-heard,-and

3

it—seemed_low and made-a-great-dealof noise. After a few seconds' study
object became clearly outlined and looked similar to a vertical cylinder,
large at the bottom and narrow at the top, with streamers or streaks of
vapor attached. “+t gave the appearance of a white cloud, but did not behave
as acloud. 1¢ retained its shape and maintained a steady movement on a
straight course against the wind. The Delaware airport was alerted for its
appearance, but after a half hour it had not been sighted there.

MRIS RT|
e RESTRIGIED |

CHECK=LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS }

1. Date § April 19hs Incidont # 112a

2. Time 1430 :
3. Location Delaware, Ohio
. Name of observer Mrs, John Bergen
5. Occupation of obsorvor Housewife
6, Address of observor 111 North Washington Street
7+ Placo of observation From the ground
8. Numbor of objects One
9. Distance of objoct from observor N/S
10. Timo in sight N/S

ll. Altitude N/S

12. Speod N/S ‘
13. Direction of flight Southwesterly
1h. Tactics None

15. Sound Wooex Could not be determined
16. Size N/S

17. Color White

18, Shapo Spherical "blob" with streaks above it
19. Odor dotected None

20. Apparent construction N/S

5 Exhaust trails None

22. Woathor conditions Clear

23. Effoct on clouds N/S

2h. Sketches or photographs None

25. Manner of disappearance N/S

26. Romarks: Witness heard planes prior to the sighting, put doesn't
know whether or not they had any connection with the object.

os

2
———

-
2.
Be
he
5s
6.
Te

De

10.
lls
12.
LB.
1h.
15.
16.
le
18.
19.

20.

. SesTRicTeo

__CHECK=LIST = UNIDENTIFIED PLYING OBJECTS
Date & April 196 3 ZpotdontF 1ize
Time 1430
ae Delaware, Ynio
Namo of observer Rev. John H. Bergen
Occupation of obsorvor Pastor
Address of observor 111 North Washington Street
Placo of observation From the ground
Numbor of objects One
Distance of objoct from observer Not determined
Timo in sight Ten minutes
Altitude Several thousand feet
Speed Not too fast
Direction of flight Almost due west into the wind
Tactics None,
Soumd None
Size Not less than 5 feet in width
Color Very white
Shapo Spherical, with a small protrusion above it, like vapor streaks
Odor -detectod None
Apparent construction N/S -
Exhaust trails None
Weather conditions Clear

Effoct on clouds N/S

ij Og ;
Sketches or photographs None ie witty; Iw UE

Manner of disappoaranco Disappeared from view behind the trees

Remarks; This object appeared like a concentrated bit of cloud
except it was clearly outlined. The size could not be determined,

Ye!

1h.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
al.
22.

23.

256
26.

REO miVvleVv

CHECK=LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

Dato & April 1948 x é Incidont # li2e

Time 1430

Location Delaware, Ohio

Namo of observor Mrs, H, S, Kirkpatrick

Occupation of obsorvor Housewife

Address of observer 107 North Washington Street

Placo of observation From the ground |
Numbor of objocts One

Distance of object from observer N/S

Timo in sight N/S

Altitude n/S

Speed Steady - not too fast

Direction of flight Southwesterly

Tactics None

Soumd None

Sizo It was not large enough for a person to be inside

Color White - about the color of a fleecy cloud

Shapo §$pherical - womewhat larger at top with a protruding end umerneat
Odor dotected None
Apparont construction N/S

Exhaust trails None

Woathor conditions Clear, blue sky, sumy

Effoct on clouds N/S

Skotches or photographs None

Manner of disappearance n/S

Romarks: Witness heard, but did’ not see airplane, and saw instead
a white object, spherical in shape, larger at the top with a protruding ©
re Nie Abs * doc It

end underneath, It was clearly outlined and maintained the same shape as it moved
along, steadily, and at the same altitude. Hobert Cochran, son of the witness,
who is in the Merchant Marine, thought the object very wusual., He said it was in
the shape of a rainspout. Mi

/

~>

Te

ly
a.
3
he
5.
6
Te
8.
De
10.
aie
12.
2.
1h.
15.

CHECK*LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

Date 9 April 19h8 Incidont # 115
Time 15s,

Location Montgomery, Alabama

Namo of observer Robert B. Hughes, “t. Colonel, USAF

Occupation of obsorvér Pilot

Address of observor Tactics Div., Air Tactical School, Tyndall AF Base
Placo of observetion From the air

Numbor of objects One

Distance of object from observer N/S

Timo in sight Five seconds

Altitude Approximately 16000 feet

Speod Tn excess of the viewer's 310 mph air speed

Diroction of flight Northwest

Tactics N/S

Sound None

Sizo Top part eight feet diameter

Color Silver

Shapo Had the appearance of a parachute carrying a large canister or

ball
Odor dotected N/S

L> £m an

Apparont construction N/S Rs eS gy i
Exhaust trails None
Woathor conditions Glear, visibility and ceiling unlimited
Effoct on cloudsN/S

Sketches or photographs - Sketch (trip)

Manner of disappoarance n/s
Serie hPa Re ME ESTP ere
2x

The object, sighted at ten o'clock off his left a
silver disc. immediately completed a sharp bank to the left and was
able to get a better look at the object, anddescribed it as follows:

& appeared to

"Top part of the object approximately eight feet in diameter, silver
in color, had the appearance of a parathute, Attached to the bottom of this
had been a dark cable or shrowi which appeared to be approximately five feet
long. Suspended upon the cable had been a large canister or ball (Colonel
Hughes could not discern which) also silver in color, This canister or
ball had theappearance of being slightly to the rear of the top part of the
object. The overall appearance of theobject, looked something similar to S
the parachute and canister containing photographic testing equipment dropped
from a V-2 rocket."

At the time he lost sight of the object, “ughes' aircraft had been
indicating 310 miles per hour air speed, and the object had appeared to fly
away from him on a horizontal plane rather than a vertical decline.

A sketch of the object is attached,

36 a

sa

le

Be
le
Se

Te
8.
is

10,

20.

CHECK-LIST = UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

Dato =-:18 Apr 4S Incidont # 14
Time 1306 hours :

Location Approx 1 mile north a Fairbenks, Alaska

Name of observer | Lit Aytch Johnson

Occupation of obsorvor let Lt (discharged £/USAF as per authority
Address of obsorvor Ft Worth, Texas ay
Placo of obsorvation Over city of Fairbanks, Alaska

Nunbor of objocts 1

Distance of objoct from obsorvor W/S

Timo in sight few mimtes

Altitude 2000-3000 ft

Speod 250=300 miles (traveled 500 feet in 1 or 2 seconds)
Direction of flight Northeast towerd southwest

Tactics Oseillated from horizontal plane to vertical plane at very
Sound aon

Size 8" in diameter

Color silvery

Shapo round and flat *

Odor dotectod xs

Apparent construction y/s

Exhaust trails mo trails of any kind

Woathor conditions Weather clear and visibility unrestricted
Effoct on clouds B/S

Skotehes or photographs none

Manner of disapposrance 4¥/S

Remarks: (over) =

"yt

of these aircraft. At
number of aircraft were

Cia

f
é

Js
26
3.
he
5.
6
ts
8.
9

10.

12.

13.
Ihe
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.

23.

256
26.

,
Name of observers 1st Lt Francis W, Hennin, Jr.
& lst Lt Robert G.loomis, USAF
Occupation of observer Both attached to Liaison sq. Greenville

Address of observers Greenville AP Base, Greenville,S. C.

Placo of observation Greenville AF Base 5
Numbor of objects # 3-1 at first , 2 later
Distance of objoct from observer 15,000 to 20,000 ft overhead
Timo in sight 2 mimtes
Altitude 15,000 to 2Q000 ft
Speod Undetermined, Stationary, then rapidly accelerating ani
clipbing
Direction of flight North
Tactics Hover: then acceleration and climbing
serve:

trail formation

Sound mone audible (7) - states: Witnesses were attracted by sound
of fighter aircraft in vicinity.
Sizo undetermined (no mention made of these)

Color white

Staion elliptical

Odor dotected * HWS

Apparent construction 4/s

Exhaust trails No exhemst or condensation trail
Woathor conditions CAVU

Effoct on clouds 4/s
Skotehes or photographs 2 pee he Seger te 28 al ah ie aeiag

Mamner of disappearance in distance

Romarks: (over)

"TF

Witnesses were attracted by sound of fighter aircraft in vicinity.
They started searching the sky for the aircraft and sighted the
objects. When first sighted, the witnesses thought theobjects might
be weather balloons, However, when they accelerated so rapidly in

a northerly heading, they determined the objects could not be balloons.
They were in a trail formation on a North-South line, and moved so
rapidly they wereout of sight within a few seconds. From original
sighting in the stationary position to their disappearance, a period
of gpproximately two (2) mimtes elapsed, of which the objects were

in a stationary position for approximately one (1)mimute,

NOTH: Wind at 20,000 ft from 340° at 10 knots per hour (1230 EST Rpt)
Wind at 20,000 ft 32° at 13 knots per hour at (1830 EST Rpt)

NOTE: Nearest weather station releasing balloons is Spartanburg, S. C,
One black balloon was released at 1230 EST,

; VDAPL RPA AAPA Ae
.
°
pendin’
rest om He

/
\ }

O

0,
(4) 0 In approximately 2 minutes objects had disappesred
| G) oO Objects began moving in a NNE direction and rapidly accelerating
| 5s ° and climbing. $
(2) ° ° When first seen objects were in a semi-stationary position,

(1) ° First one object was sighted, next, another one appeared,

le
a.
36
he
De
6
Te

8.

10.
ll.
12.

13.

17.
18.
19.
20.

21.

256
26.

CHECK=LIST = UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS
Date ll Mer 4g Incidont # 116

Timo night
5
Location Near shores of James Bay,

Namo of observor V. J. Pratt
Occupation of obsorvor Employe of Hudson Bay Co.

Address of observor Moose Factory

Placo of observation Moose Factory, Canaca
Numbor of objocts 1

Distance of objoct from obsorvor y/s

Timo in sight WN/S

Altitude N/S

Speod meteoric

Direction of flight  earthward
Tactics y/i s

Souna No noise

Sizo Size of fmtixamm football
Color 2366 Blue flame

Shapo N/S

Odor dotectoa N/S

Apparent construction meteor
Exhaust trails smamgexkighk N/S
Woathor conditions Night
Effoct on clouds - N/s

Sketches or photographs None
Manner of disappoarance exploded

Romarks: (over)

Fa)

A big ball of blue flame, seemingly the size of a football streaked out

of the sky and exploded neer this Northern Ontario community (Moose Factory)
near the shores of James Bay, The explosion lit up the entire area brighter
than daylight, the whole ball disappeared and a second later a streak of
orange light shot upward from where the ball was last seen. The orange streak
was gone within a second. Witnesses heard no noise of any kind,

NOTE: Th&s ties up with earlier reports from Cochran, 150 miles south of
Moose Jaw where several citizens reported seeing what they thought
to be a meteor around 11.40 P. M. EST Thurs,

One witness ( a Mrs. Charles Giles) said that the object plunged
downward like-a spent rocket in the northern sky. She described it
as about the size of a full moon which gave the appearance of
disintegration as it fell.

~
}
CHECK-LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS |
le. Date 7 May 4g : Incidont # woe 7
2. Time 1500 to 1700 '
3, Location Memphis, Tenn, |
1, Mame of observer Miss Jem Bray, Housekeeper et kk al (see other side)
5. Occupation of obsorvor Housekeeper
6. Address of obseryor 253 W. Waldorf Ave., Memhis, Tenn.
7. Placo of observation Memphis, Tenn,

8. Numbor of objects 50 or 60
9. Distanco of object ‘from obsorvor y/s
10. Timo in sight W/S
ll, Altitude extremely high 4
12,  Speoa faster than any aircraft witnesses had ever seen

13. Direction of flight easterly

lh. Tactics Most traveled in straight line altho some of them
zig-zagged. :
15. Souma None
16. Size Very small
17. Color shiny - like bright aluminum
18. Shapo unknomn - possibly like meteor
19. Odor dotectoa N/S
20. Apparent construction u/s
21. Exhaust trails Some objects seemed to have a silvery tail
which might have been exhmst
22,  Woathor conditions CAVU, wind: 330 to 340°, 15 MPH at surface increasing
to 66 MPH at 20,000; Surface temp: 72°; dew point 43° relative humidity 404
Be Effoct on clouds y/S :
2h. Skotehes or photographs None

25. Manner of disappearance y/s

26. Romarks: (over) |

«o

=

AA

Fifty tg60 shiny objects were seen moving at a speed faster than any
known aircraft on en Easterly heading at an extrenely high altitude,
For the most part these objects traveled in a straight line altho
some of them zig-zegged slightly. No sound was heard. Some objects
seemed to have a silvery tail which might have been exhaust. These
objects could not have been weather balloons as only one balloon was
released by the Memphis Weather Buream that day,

NOTE: Witnesses thought they had seen a meteor; however subsequent
investigation seemed to preclude this possibility.
See Supp II to Trip Report to Memphis - Visit with Dr. Paul
Herget of the Observatory of Cincinnati, Ohio, in which Dr.
Herget expressed serious doubt that the 50 or more objects
observed 7 May 48 in Memhis were meteors. He, was, however
unable to offer any explanation as to a possible identification
of the objects.

Dr. Hynak of OSU and Dr. Lincoln LaPaz are to be consulted
about the possibility of tmmis these being a meteor shower.

~~

Witness of this incident were: Mr. F. J. Kaiser, salesman
251 W. Weldorf Ave., Memphis

Mrs F. J. Kaiser, housewife
251 W. Waldorf Ave., Memchis, Tenn,
le
2.
de

he

19.

20,

22.
he
256

26.

28 Mer 4S Incidont # 118

o

Timo 1630 hours
Location Berlin Lichtenrade, Kirchbachstrasse 2

Name of observer Dr Ormans,

Occupation of obsorvor Former guided missile expert at Exeinmetall Borsi
Address of obsorvor Berlin Lichtenrade, Kirchbachstrasse 2

Placo of observation As above

Numbor of objocts 1

Distanco of objoct from observer n/s

Timo in sight 4&/S

Altitude - 14 kilometers

sod ©=s Father fast

Diroction of flight South to North
Tactics  ¥/S

Souna No sound reported

Sizo “white point"

Color White

Shapo u/s

Odor dotectod 4/8

Apparent construction W/S

Exhaust trails No exaust trail reported
Woathor conditions clear

Effoct on clouds B/S

Skotches or photographs Mone
Manner of @4sappoerance 3/6

Romarks: (over) Par ; is oe
3
~SA

Dr Ormans, former Guided Missile expert at Exeinmetall, Borsig mentioned
that he sighted 1 white point moving from South to North at an approx
height of 14 Kilometers, Speed undetermined, rather fast, no rpt of
sound, and no report of exhanst trail.

WITNESSES: Dr ana Mrs, Ormens.
No photographs available.
23.
ak.

25.

ee ESTR:

Check list - Unidentified Flying Objects
Date 20 Feb 4g

; i Incident # 119
G o> us

Time 0700 hours

Location Asuncion, Paraguay

Name of observer Mrs “Agustina Vargas de Paula

Occupation of observer N/S

Address of observer resident of Asuncion (southern pert of city)
Place of observation Asuncion

Number of objects 1 -

Distance of object from observer. N/S

Time“in sight N/S

Altitude N/S

Speed N/S

Direction of flight west to east
Tactics N/S

Sound n/s

Size y/s

Color N/S

Shepe oval

: Odor detected N/S

Apparent construction N/S
Exhaust trails highly colored weke
Weather conditions N/S

Effectcon clouds N/S
Sketches or photographs None

_Manner of diseppearance N/S

(over)

w § E
At approximately 0700 hours 20 Feb Ug witness saw object of oval e

traveling thru space from west to east. Its form e: ed in a very thin
tail of approximately 3 feet in length. The forward part was bulky com-
pered with the rear, The interior portion of ‘the object gave off green,
yellow and orange colors and it had a highly colored wake. .

Statesments were obtained from a local newspaper “La Tribuna" which has
interviewed several people claiming to have seen the saucers,

Te
8.
ye
10.
ll.
12.
13.
we
15.
16.
NT
‘8.
19.

Esl

22.
23.
au.
2.
26.

CHECK-LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING bak
Date 20 Feb lig Incident 119a
Time 0700
Locetion Aregua eS 10 miles east of Asuncion
Neme of observer “withheld”
Occupation of observer employee of Bank of Paraguay
Address of observer Bank of Paraguay
Place of observation in Aregua
Number of objects 1
Distence of object from observer N/S
Time in sight N/S
Altitude N/S
Speed N/S
Direction of flight west to east

Tactics’ N/S

Sound n/s |
Size n/s

Color w4N/S

Shape oval

Odor detected N/S

Apparent construction N/S

Exheust trails N/S

Weather conditions N/S

Effect on clouds N/S

Sketches or photographs None ; j
Menner of disappearance N/S : ;
Remarks (over) ie: ; 1

le
2.
3e
he
De
be
Te
8.
Qe

10.

BY
18.
19.
20.
al.
22.
236
ah.
256
26.

a

CHECK=LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

Date 20 Feb ug Incidont # 119d

Time 0700

Location Villa Hayes (10 miles NNE of Asuncion)
Name of observer tam Rancher and laborers
Occupation of obsorvor Rancher.

Address of observor infhe "Chaco"

Placo of observstion Ranch house in neighborhood of Villa Hayes
Numbor of objocts 1
Distance of object from observer n/s

Timo in sight 4/S

Altitude 1,000 ft

Speod less than that of a plane

Direction of flight west to east

tactics 3/S

Sound n/s
Size y/s
Color w4W/S

Shapo dise

Odor dotectod wW/S

Apparent construction n/s

Exhaust trails WN/S - gave off an intense green color
Weather conditions N/S

Effect on clouds W/S

Sketches or photographs None

Manner of disappoerance n/s

Romarks: (@ver)
"5

Perceived a disc giving off an intense green color. Witness reports

that the object traveled from west to east at a speed less than that of

a plane and at an altitude of approx 1000 ft. Along its edges it gave off
an aureola with the color green predominant.

le
2.

Be

De
6.
Te.
8.
De

10.

23.
ah.
256
26.

StRIGGED
CHECK-LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS |
Date N/S- around 7 Fed ig | Incidont # 120
Time 4/S

Location Vejle, Denmark

Name of observer WN/S

Occupation of obsorvor field laborers

Address of observor W/S

Placo of observation Gadbjerg (near Vejle)

Number of objects 1

Distance of object from observer 200 meters altitude
Timo in sight AS 3 seconds

Altitude 200 meters altitude

Speed high speed ‘
Direction of flight SB to Nw
Tactics y/s

Sound N/S |
Size W/S

Color shining

Shapo N/S

Odor dotectod N/S

Apparent construction y/s

Exhaust trails N/S

Weathor conditions Nj/S

Effoct on clouds N/S

Sketches or photographs None

Manner of disappoarance N/S

Romarks: (Over)

Three mem working in a field in Gadbjerg (neor Vejle) Denmark, have
Observed @ shining object which moved at high speed over the sky from
southeast to northwest at ebout 200 meters altitude. It remained visible

- for three seconds.

MA COMME: Ho verification received of the shove,  Bvaluation P=6

i.

3.
he

10.

ll.

256
26.

CHECK*LIST = UN
Date 9 January 1948 . Incidont 121

Time 2330

Location Cartersville, Georgia, 34° 10! N, 84° ho" W

Name of observor Hugh DuBose

Occupation of obsorvor Pilot (EAL)

Address of observor N/S

Placo of obsorvetion Air *
Numbor of objects One

Distance of object from observer WN/S
Timo in sight wN/S

Altitude 3000 feet

Speod 00 mph

Diroction of flight 175° M

Tactics None

Sound N/s |

Sizo n/s eS

Color Light, sky-blue

Shapo a except for the top quanta which was flat, pot-
shape

Odor dotectod u/s
Apparent construction N/S

Exhaust trails None

Woathor conditions N/S

Effoct on clouds “/9
Skotches or photographs None
Manner of. disappoerance 10° below the horizon

Romarks: When object crossed the path of the witness all that could
be observed was an intense blue flame, in a shape circular except for

the top quarter which was flat, pot-shaped._ The witness states that the
object definitely did not have the curved trajectory of a wingless missile.
Shartly after crossing his path, the blue flame sputtered and turned
immediately earthward, The flame then died altogether but nothing was |
seen hitting the ground. Witness states that the flame was not ¢ the

long trailing type, bub rather gave the impression that you were looking

down a long exhaust stack at a short but concentrated mass of blue flame |
and further stated that his connections with RAF pilots in Mngland during |
the war leads him now to believe this object looked the same as the
"Buzz Bombs" chased by t ose RAF pilots at night, Arthur Porter, purser
on this flight 9 January 4S, also saw the object, the flame aa but
can give no further evidence for its identification.

Mr. DuBose stated on April 29 that seventy-five cattle had died of an
unknown disease on the farm of a “r. Gordy at Newman, Georgia, and expressed
concern over a possible connection between the unidentified object he
reported and this umusual fatality among healthy cattle. However, the
Atlanta “ffice of the Animal Industry Division, U.S, Department of het
culture, advises that this "know" disease has persisted for over a |
year and other cases repeated elsewhere in the country for some time back.

There apparently remains no basis for connection between the object Mr, }
DuBose reports and the death of seventy-five cattle at Newnan, Georgia, |

sm

1.
2.
3.
Le
De
6
Te
8.
De

10.

17.
18.
19.
20.
21.

23

256
26.

Location Holloman “Air Force Base

Name of observer Mr, Olsen © : ;

Cccupction of obsorvor ‘rained talloon observer, Geophysics Lab Section

Address of observor N/S 5 a

Placo of observation From the ground ; |

Numbor of objects One ; |

Distance of object from observer N/S ; i

Timo in sight 30 seconds

Altitude Very high

Speed Faster than any known eirevatt

Diroction of flight N/S

Tactics Bratie - completing a large loop after its domward descent,
then soaring upward and disappearing suddenly

Sound None

Size Large

Color Grey-white

Shapo Rounded, indistinct form |

Odor dotectod ~ N/S

Apparent construction N/S

Exhaust trails N/S |

Weathor conditions C,A.V.U.

Effoct on clouds n/S

Skotches or photographs None

Manner of disappeerance Disappeared suddenly

Romarks: This was evidently the one object, of two sighted by - |
another witness, that veered to the right and down. Its vaguely |

+7

| ata |
defined form cave, appearance of a large object at a great distance.

The statements of other witnesses to this incident are contained in
reports 112a and 112b. -
All witnesses agreed that the object was very high, moved faster than

any known aircraft, possessed a rounded, indistinct form, amd disappeared
suddenly rather than fading away in the distance. It was under observation
1/2 minutes or slightly less. + was definitely not a balloon, and ‘ |
apparently not manned, judging from the violent maneuvers which were

performed at a high rate of speed.

+44

10,

ibs
12,
13.
14.

Ds

16.
7.
18.
19.
20.
Oke
22.
23.
ah.
256
26.

“Altitude ¥/s

CHECK-LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS
Date * 11, April 19hg
Time 2330
Logation 4 miles north pf Alton, Illinois
Namo of observer Col W. F, Siegmund

Occupation of obsorvor Former Commandant of the Air Base at Kearns, Utch
and at present sales meneger for Weestern Cartridge, Co., Altor

Address of observor Weestern Certridge,Co., Alton, Ill,
Placo of obsorvetion | miles north of Alton, Ill - ground
Numbor of objoots 1

Distance of pbjoct from observer n/s

Timo in sight y/ a

Speed N/' s

Direction of flight H/s

Tactics 7 "flapped its wings"

Sound y/ i)

Size “bigger than en airplane"

Color N/S

Shapo = Resembled a huge fowl and not a type of aircraft
Odor dotectod n/S

Apparent construction n/s

Exhaust trails _N/S

Woather conditions n/s

Effoct on clouds N/S ‘a
Sketehes or photographs None
Manner of disappearance n/s

Romarks: Col Siegmund said he observed the creature at about
11 i. 11 Apr 8, while ri ing four miles north of Alton,I11

over) Sees

: Incidont # 123

never questioned some sort of investigetion

i.
2.

Be

De
6.
Te

8.

10.
ll.
12.
13.
1h.
15.
16.
17.
18.

19.

21.
22.

23.

25.
26.

v% Gee YY
CHECK=LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

Date 18 April 1948 Incidont # 9),
Time 1500 GCT :

Location Nérth Atlantic, 62°0'N 33°0'W

Name of observer N/S

Occupation of obsorvor Weather station patrol

Address of observor First Coast Guard District

Placo of observation Air

Numbor of objects Une

Distance of objoct from observer 6500 yards - 18000 yards

Timo in sight N/S
Altitude N/S

Speed 30 mph

Direction of flight N/S

Tactics N/S

Soumd N/S

Sizo N/S

Color y/s

Shapo WN/S

Odor dotected N/s

Apparent construction N/S

Exhaust trails wW/S

Woathor conditions C.A.V.U. u me @

Vw

Effoct on cloudsN/S
Sketches or photographs None
Manner of disappearance Target strength was S5 fading at 18,000 yards

Romarks: This incident is the result of a radar sighting. Copy
is also filed in radar sighting file.

ome

~t

This target was contacted on the air search radar at 1500 GCT on 1 April 4s.

ie first contact was made at 6500 yards and was tracked to 18,000 yards !
giving a velocity of approximately 30 m.p.h. The area in which the
target was contacted was thoroughly search visually and there were no
clouds nor weather fronts in said area. There were no target indications

on the surface radar. -The target strength was S5 fadingat 18,000 yards.

le
26

3.

De
6.
Te
8.
90

10.

17.
18,
19.
20.

21.

256
26.

: : see om LA or em |

=

c

CEECK*LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

Date 2 May 198 Incidont # 195

Timo Night —
Locetion St. “ouis, Missouri, 0°00'N 90°15'W
Name of observor N/S

Occupation of obsorvor N/S

Address of observer N/S

Placo of observation Ground

Numbor of objocts One

Distance of objoct from obsorvor N/S |
Timo in sight N/S

Altitude N/S

Speed N/S

Direction of flight N/S

Tactics N/S

Sound N/S

Size N/S

Color Phosphorescent after dark
Shapo Bird

Odor dotectod N/S

Apparont construction N/S
Exhaust trails N/S

Woathor conditions N/S

Effoct on clouds N/S

Sketches or photographs None
Manner of disappearance N/S

Romarks: See Incident #123

CHECK=LIST = UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS
1. Date 30 April 1948 Incidont # 126

2. Time 1015
3. Location Anacostia, Naval Air Station, 38°52'N, 77°0'W~
4. Name of ceeuaves Marcus L.Lowe
5. Occupation of obsorvor Lt Commander, US Navy
6, Address of observor N/S
7- Placo of observation “ir
8. Numbor of objects One
9. Distance of object from observer One mile
10. Timo in sight N/s
ll. Altitude 1,500 feet
12. Speed 100 mpeh.
13. Diroction of flight 360°N
1h. . Tactics N/S
15. Sound N/S
16. Size 25-0 ft diameter
17~- Color Yellow (light colored)
18. Shapo Sphere
19. Odor dotectod N/S
20. Apparent construction N/S
21. Exhaust trails N/S
22. Weathor conditions N/S
23. Effect on clouds N/S a3 iG

2h.  Skotches or photographs None = © > ‘

_25. Manner of disappearance N/S

- 26, Romarks: The object appeared to the pilot to be a yellow (or
light colored) balloon, and attracted attention principally because

520%

in ere mm >

of its flight path. No external fittings or attachments were observed
on the object. ‘The speed of the object was estimated at about 100 m.p.h.
The flight of the object was in approximately a south to north dire ction,
despite upper winds from north northwest, and apparently followed a con-
stant altitwie. Pilot did not pursue object further because it was
entering the prohibited flying area, U.S, Capitol, White House Area.

le
26

3e

Se
6.
Te
8.
oe
10.
ll.
12.
13.
lhe
15.
16.

17.

256
26.

ia k Boo

CHECK=LIST = UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

Incidont # 127

Date 7 May 19s -
Time N/S
Location Lake Doiran, along the Yugoslav-Greek frontier

Name of observer N/S
Occupation of obsorvor N/S

Address of observor N/S

Placo of observation Ground

Numbor of objocts One

Distance of object from observer N/S od
Timo in sight N/S

Altitude 3000 feet

Speed N/S

pisobhen of flight 160°

Tactics N/S

Sound like artillery shell (shrill whine)
Size N/S
Color N/S

Shapo Flying disc
Odor dotectod N/S
Apparent construction N/S
Exhaust trails N/S
Woathor conditions N/S

Effoct on clouds N/S

1 ee:

TEP
Skotches or photographs None com Oa
n/S
A press dispatch quoted residents of the Lake Doiran

Manner of disappearance

Romarks:

area along the Yugoslav-Greek frontier as saying they saw a “flying

he

5e

Te
8.
De

10.

17.

21.
22.
23.
2h.
254
26.

CHECK=LIST = UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

Date May 19b8 : Incidont # 128
Time Night P
Location(Hobson) ‘Middleport, Ohio, 30° 00' N, 82° 03! W

Name of observer Ben Rupe

Oceupation of obgorvor New York Central System Car Inspector
Address of observor N/S

Placo of observation Ground

Number of objocts N/S

Distance of object from observer N/S

Timo in sight N/S

Altitude 6 - & miles

Speod Great amount of speed

Direction of flight 90°

Tactics N/S

Sound N/S

Sizo 9" diameter from ground level

Color Fhosphorescent S
Shapo Round

Odor dotectod N/S

Apparent construction N/S

Exhaust trails Phosphorescent trail in sky

Woathor conditions N/S

Effoct on clouds N/S AS Pr FP AAT A

Sketches or photographs None 28 a> 8
Manner’ of disappearance N/S

Romarks: The above covers sighting of same objects by Earl Roush, ~
New York Central System Car Inspector; Bob White, New York Central

57

$7a

CHECK=LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

1. Dato 31 Mey 19hs Incidont # 129

2. Time 1320
3. Yocation Wilmington, North Carolina, 34° 14! N, Theo w
4. Namo of observor Mrs, H, D. Alspach
5. Occupation of obsorvor n/s
6. Address of observor 709 South 6th
Te Placo of observetion Ground
8. Numbor of objocts One
9. Distance of object from obsorver N/S
10, Timo in sighty/s
4s saawoude Awfally high
12. Speod Fast
13. Direction of flight 90°
1h. Tactics “None
15. Sound n/S
16. Sizo As large as an arm, and about 3 feet long
17. Color n/S :
18. Shapo Oplong
19. Odor dotected N/s
20. Apparent construction wN/S
21. Exhaust trails [mitted smoke
22. Woathor conditions n/S

ve ee

230 Effoct on clouds y/S

2h. Sketches or photographs None
25. Manner of disappoarance wN/S

26, Romarks: Mysterious sky object was sighted by Mrs. Alspach, her
sister Mrs, Colvin, and Mrs. H.D, Hufham, It came at first at a fast

i

———————————————

ae
en

CHECK=LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

l. Date 17th May 19h8 Incident #130

2. Time ight
3. Location Between Plevna and Miles City, Montana
hl. Name of observer W, A, Bonneville
5. Occupation of obsorver Territory Mgr., B, F. Goodrich Company
6, Address of obsorvor 15 W. Rosser Ave., Bismark, N. D.
7» Placo of observation Ground, Route #212, West of Plevna, traveling west |
8. Numbor of objocts One
9. Distance of object from observer At closest point, approx. 2500 feet
0, Timo in sight Some twenty minutes
11, Altitude n/S
12. Speed Twice the speed of the Northwest Airlines planes
13. Direction of flight West, slightly south, then west
14. Tactics Performed arc
15. Sound None
16. Size Fairly large compared with an aircraft
17. Color White —- (might have had slight bluish-white tinge)
18. Shape Ball
19. Odor dotected Nn/S

20. Apparent construction N/S - but apparently meteor-like
2h, Exhaust trails A long bright light shooting from under it
22.  Woathor conditions Mopnlight, but clouly

23. Effoct on clouds N/S

2h,  Skotehes or photographs None - Map forwarded showing location of object
25. fanner of disappoaranco Flew in a dark clowd bank

26,  Romarks: See Supplement

|
|
|
|
|

THE B. F. GOODRICH COMP, is

Minneapolis 3, Minnesota

415 West Rosser Ave
Bismark, N. D.
c 5-23-48 z

United States Army - Intelligence Div.
Washington, D. C.

Gentlemen:-

On the night of May 17th at about 11:30 PM driving from Baker, Montana
to Miles City Montana on U.S, Highway #12 just West of Plevna, Montana before
getting to the hills I noticed a very bright object in the sky to the North-
west. The sky was overcast in the West but to the South the moon could be
seen at times - with a broken sky. Having traveled this same route for
many years - about 15, I am pretty well used to open prairie road at night
and can tell a star from an musual object when I see it.

Northwest Airlines travel a Western route just North of this route
also, but I stopped at the Powder River Bridge where the road dips con-
siderably down from a high ridge - cut off my car motor and watched this
object as it sailed around in the sky - which at times close and others
seemed to speed away into the heavy clowl bank to the West and then later
reappearing, at a very bright white light at what) I would juige about not
more than several miles away or closer. I carry a pair of field glasses
with me, and after stopping the car engine watched this thing through my
glasses, which seemed to appear as a small object with a long very bright
light shooting from the under part of it. Because of the speed of the
object and the darkness it was vefy difficult to make out what it might

be, but I am sure that if I had had a more powerful glass I might have
made it out.

I am perfectly sincere and do not drink so the foregoing is absolutely
the truth. With some of this newspaper funabout flying saucers etc, this
had all of the appearance of just that- and in stopping the car if this
had been an aeroplane I would certainly have been able to hear the motors,

I stopped at a service station just before getting to the Powder River
Bridge but they hai all gone to bed so did not have anyone along with me
to witness the object as it flew through the air. It stayed around this
area for about 20 minutes and then flew off through the heavy cloud bank
to the West.

I am enclosing a map showing the location of the foregoing.
Yours very truly,
The B. F. Goodrich Company

/s/ Wm. Bonneville
Territory Manager

OSD

sn SO

— ne Rie —

=
3 & The B, BP, Goodrich Compan ae ©
1653 Hennepin Avenue
Minneapolis, Minnesota

Pica iis Sarg fd id See 415 W. Rosser Avenue
GI § Bod VY A Bismarck, ne egal
ia: June 18, 1

Col W, R. Clingerman
U, 5, army Air Forces
Wright Field
Dayton, Ohio

Refer - MCIAXO-3
Dear Sir: -

In reply to your letter of Jume 15th in which there are several questions
which you desire answ red to the best of my ability - with reference to
the object which I saw flying through the air between Plevna ami Miles
City Montana on the night of May 17th, 1 will answer them and give youa
\ graphic description again with a little more elaboration than my previous
letter - if that is possible.

Question: - Did the entire object appear to be glowing, or did it give
the effect of carrying lights. Answer: This thing seemed to be a ball of

* bright white light - and I could not make out if it was being carriedor just
what made it go — however, it did disturb me quite a little because after
stopping to view it at the Powder River Bridge I could not hear motors
humming such as an aircraft in these parts might have, and I therefore tried
to find out just what it was by the use of my field glasses,

(b) Question: — An estimate of the size of the object in comparison with
some other known object. Answer - the size of the light which was very
brilliant would indicate that it was fairly large compared with aircraft -
and I would say that this exceedingly bright light which was one light
and not several was as bright as the headlight on a locomotive, only
¥ y about three times that bright and without direction. By this TI mean that
2 this light simply glowed very bright and was not a-directed light.

(c) Que tion: - An estimate of the speed of the object in comparison with
the jet type or conventional aircraft. Answer: This object flew at about -
twice the speed of any aircraft that Northwest Airlines planes fly - because |
it would appear coming thro where I was traveling west on Highway #212 or #12
as we call it out here appearing only faintly first and then growing larger |
as it approached over the hills north of the highway - until it seemed to
hang there off in the northwest of me brightly and then would turn south
toward the highway there it became real bright and then would start back
West again and fly out of sight. This ting did this several times - which
actwally got my goat - if I may put it that way. (d) Question: Did the
object appear to be circling at random or didit follow a definite flight |
pattern. Answer: As + have explained before - the object appeared first when

e/.

1x0"

ES D

the West - then turning slightly South and turning in a big swing and
then heading West again - flying out of sight into the dark black
cloud bank out of sight - then reappearing, and it did this several times.
(e) Question: - Is it possible that its disappearance into a "heavy clow
bank" might have been caused by clouds obscuring reflected moonlight
from a hig ly polished surface. Answer: - No - I have seen aircraft
many times on moonlight nights - but this was not anything like that -
this thing glowed brightly white light such as any real white brilliant
light might. The moon was not bright enough to reflect polished light
unless the craft might have been South of me in the direct light of the
moon — which showed (the moon) from time to time through the clowis. ‘This
objedt was in theblack section of the sky over to the North of me ani
slightly west, and was a steady oncoming light growing brighter as it
came, and had the appearance of something carrying this light in the air-
but without sound, and it certainly was close enough to me to have heard
motors,

E>
Ge

I thought it might have been some kind of a jet aircraft that I perhaps had
never seen — because we as civilians know very little as to what might be
gbhing on in defense or experimental mechanics however + Pfelt it my duty to
report the thing regardless as to what it might have been, ‘This was
somewhat difficult for.me to do because of the crackpot stories making

the rounds in some sections about flying saucers etc., but for the life

of me this had all the ear marks of just that kind of a deal.

I have traveled this road about which I have releated this sighting many
many times and at night Winter and Summer - and have never before in my
life seen anything like this - so naturally I was somewhat alarmed about
it, and have steadfastly kept the whole thing to myself. I will certainly
be on the lookout for the dammed thing the next trip I make through this
same area which is generally after dark - because most of the time I work
from Lemmon South Dakota or Hettinger North Dakota dlong this highway to
Miles City which is about one days work ith my Dealers. -In times like
these I feel as before stated anything of this nature which we are not
familiar with we are duty bound to report to our Defense Forces who may
be better equipped to understand the unfamiliar than we are.

Yours very truly,

W.A. BONNEVILLE - Territory Mgr
for the B. “. Goodrich Company

seu

Inc 131

_

10.
ll,
12,
13,
14,
15.
16.
Lae:
18,
19.
20,
2l,
ee.
23.
24,
25.

26.

27. @imeppearance: N/S was sighted o3

Probably true {

CHECK-LIST + UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS i

Date 20 June 1948

Time 2230

Location’ Belleville, Illinois

Name of observer Lt Col Wm T, Hull

Occupation of observer Pilot, ar eee ee Flying Teng

Address of observer Scott AF Base, Belleville, Illinois

Place of observation (?) oy

Number of objects 1

Distance of object from observer n/s }

Time in sight y/s

Altitude Undetermined but below 6,000 ft

Speed Approx 500 MPH

Direction of flight 295° S of Base then 340° upon reaching
south end of Scott AF Base

Tactics Zigzag course

Sound None

Size Six or eight inches in diameter

Color White light

Shape 4Anprox round

Odor detected n/s

Apparent construction n/s

Exhaust trails None

Weather conditions Complete overcast at 6,000 ft

Effect on clouds y/s

Sketches or photographs None @*3 ig e 7 9 ra Tr ry

Manner of disappearance Wsuoe an }

Rehiarks No aircraft flying in the vicinity
of Soott AF Base at the time light

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6,

7.

10.
at)
2B...
13.
14,
15.
26.
17,
18,
19.
20.
21.
22.
23,
24,
25.

26.

CHECK-LIST + UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

4

Date 12 Dec 1947
Time 2205 «& 2208
Location Oslo, Norway \
Name of observer : Deughter to MA Kai E, Rasmussen, Col GSC

Occupation of observer n/s

Address of observer Same as MA, Oslo, Norway
Place of observation Oslo, Norway (Ground)
Number of objects 1

Distance of object from observer n/s

Time in sight -Between two end three seconds

Altitude N/s (apparently traveling fairly close to
ground or would be visible to more peonle)

Speed Not quite as fast as a meteor

Direction of flight SSE-SSW to NNW-(?)

Tacticd ©. Performed arc of circle, curvature-very great
Sound None
Size N/ s ‘s
rr , TID <
Color ‘ Iuminous White with greenish-yellow tail
Shape n/s
Odor detected None
Apparent construction Meteor-like ®
Exhaust trails Greenish-yellow trail
Weather conditions No fog, sky clear and ster-lit
Effect on clouds reser bf en
Sketches or photographs none a
Manner of disappearance Trees obscured vision "3

Remarks: Office employee reports umisuel no. of falling stars
night of 13 Dec.

Univ Observatory has no record of incident, i

AS

INCIDENT 133

10.
ll.
12,
13.
14,

15.

23.

24,

25.

26.

 SSCTRMOTED

CHECK-LIST + UNIDENTIFIED RL¥ING OBJECTS

Date 20 = 26 Feb ig |
Time Usually around 2130 hours

Location n/s (Norway Denmark & Sweden)

Name of observer N/ 8

Occupation of observer n/s

Address of observer n/s

Place of observation y/s

Number of objects n/S

Distance of object from observer y/s

Time in sight n/s

Altitude From tree-top level to 20,000 £
Speed one to two miles per second

Direction of flight Come from direction of Pernemunde

Tactics n/s
Sound y/s
Size n/s

Color . (green tail)

Shape n/s

Odor detected 0/8

Apparent construction n/S CHa
Exhaust trails green

Weather conditions N/s

Effect on clouds n/s

Sketches or photographs None

Manner of disappearance y/s

Remarks The trend of these objects to appear at2130 Bee a 2

might be significants:, =: G> Tem ry bd oP

Incident:
134

(2)

see sketch

Sad

10.
ll.
12.
13.
14,
15.
16.
17,
18,
19.
20,
21.
22.
23.
24,
25.

26.

&e %

CHECK-LIST ¢ UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

Date FOCGHCOURE 25 May 1948

Time 1500 hours (Eastern Daylight Saving Time)

Location Selfridge Fld, Mt. Clemens, Mich 48 ‘MacDill AF Base
approx 6 miles east of Monroe, Michigan

Name of observer Lt Kokolonis

Occupation of observer Ist Lt, Corps of Engineers

Address of observer Selfridge Field

Place of observation 6 miles east of Monroe, Michigan

Number of objects 5 - three at first - two later

Distance of object from observer 2 miles to left (first 3)
2-1/2 miles to left ( two)

Time in sight 10 te 15 seconds
Altitude 8,000 +
Speed over 500 MPH

seven o'clock position to es: heading north.
Direction of flight HHXxheading from MaaDill to Selfridge
. making abrupt turn to right (pilot's left))
Tactics Maintained nose-up attitude. Made abrupt turns.

Sound None

Size 300 to 400 ft approx. - size of lake freighters (500 ft)
Color silvery-gold color
Shape disc
Odor detected xfs
Apparent construction w/s
Exhaust trails mone
Weather conditi Clear - visibili “et 41 Ss
0) 2 ra 2

ig High overcast ea, ft w/ehin stratus
Effect on clouds Fy hal very broken at 8,000
Sketches or photographs Sketch showing approx positions

Manner of disappearance lost in he te at 7 o'clock position to pilot

Remarks Objects maintained smooth track thru sky, and flew

in line of stern stepped up. In second sighting the second object
flew about 50 feet higher than the first. All had hazy or fuzzy outline.

Moy

INCIDENT

é
is

10.
ll.
12.
13.
14,
15.
16.
AA
18,
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24,
25.

26.

CHECK-LIST + UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

Date
Time
Location
Name of
Occupati

Address

Place of observation

28 May 1948

1500 hours (Eastern Daylight Saving Time)

B>> gute to

fridge Fld., Mt. Clemens,
Position: 6 miles due east of Monroe, Michigan

observer M/Sgt Ernest Davis, Jr. (colored)

on of observer w/Set
of observer Selfridge Field

Number of objects e

Distance of object from observer

Time in sight 30 seconds
Altitude approx 8,000 ft
Speed

Direction of flight

Tactics
Sound
Size
Color

Shape

Mich f/facDill Fld

eux OU Over 100 miles per hour

Pursued straight course

nfs

Appeared to be four feet in diameter

Shiny brass

round

Odor detected N/S

Apparent construction nfs

Exhaust

Weather

Sketches

Manner of disappearance

Remarks

trails None

conditions Clear, high overo:

6 miles due east of Monroe, Michigan

25 to 30 miles to aux left

South West from 35° at 8:00 o'clock position

ast at 18,000 ft; thin stratus

layer broken at 6,000 ft, lateral visibilitys
Effect on clouds ie to 15 miles

or photographs Sketoh

Discrepancy as
as sighted by

seen flying over wo

nfs

to position of 2nd object in group 2

Lt Kokolomie (Inc 13l)
Witness perceived only top-side of object.

oded section

Objects
a7
INCIDENT: 135

af

CHECK-LIST < UNIDENTIFIED. FLYING OBJECTS

Date Between 15th & 20th aug ¥

Time * 2130 MST .

Location Rapid City AF Base, Weaver, S,D,

Name of observer Maj Elmer H. Hamer, #, (A0-46014)

Occupation of observer Intel Officer
28th Bombardment Group (WR)
Address of observer Rapid City AFBase

Weaver, S. D.
Place of observation Weaver, S, D.

Number of objects 12 (Approx)

Distance of object from observer 4 miles

Time in sight yn/s

Altitude 10,000 ft to approx 6,000 ft.

Speed 500 MPH +

Bieitinn at et eee os nee in Si
Tactics tight diamond-shaped formation

Sound no noise heard

Size Length: 100+ ft estimate
Color Yellowish-white - brilliant
Shape Elliptical

Odor detected y/S

* Apparent construction NY)

Exhaust trails None

Weather conditions Clear, no clouds, stars visible, wind, calm
visibility 30+

Effect on clouds none

Sketches or photographs Sketches

Manner of disappearance Disappeared on a SW heading

Remarks There <ppears to be minor discrepancies as to
speed and altitude in the report given verbally Z y

to Glasebrook and ltr to this Hq f/¥aj Hammer

——= ss re

At approximately 2140 hours, 30 June,
with a streemer of bluish color trailing, traveled thru the sky

@ ball of fire of orengescolor

in a westerly direction and disappeered over the horizon to the

west. The object traveld at a very fast rate of speed. No cound
wes heard. if

Witnesses: Mrs, Whitehouse, wife of Maj Harvey J. Whitehouse,
- C. 0., ASU 3319 Fennesee 5

ORC instructors, Knoxville, Tenn,
Mr. Tryus W. Setliff (See Incident 136a)

Mrs, Whitehouse stated that the object remained visible for

3 minutes and that the streamer emitted sparks.

Mr. Setliff stated that: the object was visible for about 3 seconds *
and traveled at sn estimated speed of 1,000 miles perhour at en
altitude of about 30,000 fect, 2

approximately

1360

%,
Ss
3.
4.
5,
6.
w
8.
9.
10.
it,
12,
13,
14,
15.
16.
17,
18,
19.
20,

21,

@ Keo
CHECK-LIST + UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OB. TS

Date 30 June 1948
Time 21h0
“Location S. Knoxville, Tenn

Name of observer Mr Tryus W. Setliff
Occupation of observer wy/s

Address of observer Oakridge, Tennessee
Place of observation Knoxville, Tenn
Number of objects 1

Distance of object from observer N/S
Time in sight 3 seconds

Altitude LAOOOAASHSEASK 50,000 ft
Speed 1,000 MPH

Direction of flight Westerly

Tactics n/s
Sound n/s

Size n/s

Color ofanEe Color
Shape Ball

Odor detected n/s

Apparent construction Fire

Exhaust trails Bluish Color
Weather conditions n/s
Effect on clouds n/s

Sketches or photographs None
Manner of disappearance Over horizon to West

Remarks

my
INCIDENT SUMMARY SHEET
(To be filled out and retained in files)

Date of Observation 7 Jwly- 1948. . . Incident # 137
Time of Observation@¢M} ama 2125... .

Where was Object(s) Sighted .Gampel MMQ1, Morth Carolina -

Observer's Position Om gyound at.Chgpel,. IG. -.--

(ive. ground, air, control tower, etc.)

Name and Address of Observer University. of North Carolina. .

Occupation and/or Hobbies .Mathemmies. Instructor. .. . .

Attention Attracted to Beh UR) gy eek a. ation te ee” sll gticeie thy

Numbar! of Ob ject(e) Sighted Ms, a wasm ele ws 0 0 Hime Se eae

Size of Object(s) .3-1/2% in.length viewed-perspsctively about size-of a/e

Colon oP Ob SRtCR) ie wits 19 a: Stor Bilas WAR Colgan to fe sie oy) le MIS wees po pln

Shape (Sketch if Possible) Blunt fromb tapering.to @ point in-the-rear - - -
shaped like a cigar.

Nature of Luminosity 2.066 see ee et ew wee ee ee ee ee

Estimated Distance of Object from Observer Jam. .......

Speed of Object(s) Mge Geek. 2... 2 ee ew ew
Time in Sight .Apgpyoximately.l.mimte..........

Tactics Did not puysue « general -course, but moved ‘general ly ‘io irth

Sound Made -by/Objech(s) ic) os 6. Bi ecee erie eae Be 0 giclee w

Direction of Flight of Object(s) Mast.Morthimst. .....+.-+6-

Apparent Construction (Of What Material or Substance) . . 2s.

Effect of Objects on Clouds and/or Exhaust Trail Met.visible. ...

Weather Conditions Existing at the Time . Gleam... ‘

Peculiarities Noted . .. +...

Summary of Incident Gbgets-seemed to -leve-a- blunt -
‘ein the aky, vere about
+ any wings or-any apparent) was-of getting arounl -in the
(Attach a Separate Sheet i

e

13.
1h.
15.

Ter

CHECK-LIST - ‘UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS
Dato 7 Jul 48
Timo 2114 and 2115
Location Chapel Hill} -N. C.

Name of observor H. W. Daniels

Occupation of obsorvor Capt., Infantry, Reserve

Address of observor Box 188, Chapel Hill
Placo of observation Chapel Hill, N. C.

Numbor of objocts three (3)

Distanco of object from observer N/S
Timo in sight Approximately one (1) mimte
Altitudo Extreme

Speod High

Direction of flight Hast Northeast
Tactics n/s

Sound Jet

Size y/s

Color y/S

Shapo y/S

Odor dotectod n/s

Apparent construction n/s

Exhaust trails Not Visible

Weather conditions Clear

Effoct on clouds y/g

Skotches or photographs None

Manner of disappoarance y/s

Romarks:

Incidont # 1372

INCIDENT SUMMARY SHEET
(To be filled out and retained in files)

Date of Observation .8,dwly 19M... . Incident # 136
Time of Observation 0920 brs. ....
Where was Object(s) Sighted .@olumbus Ghfe. ...

BWR by oS Faicie PONE Ae ek aL ose t

Observer's Position .@powmd,. Columbus, Ohio .

(i.e. ground, air, control tower, etc.)

Name and Address of Observer . Mts Wilda 2ittek, 2579. Avalon Ave, .Colusbus -

Occupation and/or Hobbies . Momm@wAf@ .. 0... ....-2250-50.0-,

Abtenbion- Attracted to Object ta)! Byers 6 te? aii ence ce ew ec aS alee lee
Number of Object(s) Sighted. @... wt enti) Zot aid Se aain eae
Size of Object(s) .Mi bingeulers (Type M3, .6.x.30).chout.3.1/2" in. length
Coterl oF Ob sock Cs) MMMM © $6 esse hiecre! ps dey latin we wii on W pep olcmeteciie
Shape (Sketch if Possible) lm @ Giger @ fompedo.............
Nature of Luminosity .....

Estimated Distance of Object from Observer @ Mititade.was.about.3000'. . . .
Speed of: Ghjectla) ass! te)e SN ehiw ewe le alae eo

TActL.cs Ge MMMM 6 se ois orem fede ieee ce)s s ebb es aces 8
Sound Made by Objects) SRNR. . 6 6 was sre iets 0k ee ale

Direction of Flight-of Object(s) Maret headed North Dast.then North . .

Apparent Construction (Of Material or Substance) . Mewillde. .. .

Effect of Objects on Clouds and/or Exhaust Trail . % Mote.

Weather Conditions Existing at the Time < eileen: as clouds. =

Peculiaritics Noted « Mrs Zittek-said that the objeets looked-like somthing
£5 fhest nae pelle g req
locked like a é

—_ ary ©. ferent Tsun Dhtotemment
fet pro for ttnae ts litt, Ftternn
the air at: the: tims of* -" pe P

(Attach a Separate cnet Ne Addi: s Needed)

Incident # 138 cont'd

Capt Darnell, pilot of one P-80 wes flying a loose formation in trail
of Lt. Collins while pacing him in a calibrated speed check, The aircragt
were not equipped with wing tanks (Tip). The pilots stebed that they were
in the Columbus Area, Mrs Zittek's position we froma three quarter pos-
ition at sighting,

4n article was published by the Columbus News Paper, Columbus,
Chie, 8 July 1948,

242603 Incident # 138

de ée

Information received from Captain Boyd, District Intelligence Office,
320 Old Post Office, Columbus, Ohio

Unconventional aircraft sighted by Mrs. Wilda Zittek, 2579 Avalon Ave., Columbus

at 0920 on 8 July. Weather was clear, sun shining brightly, no clouds near the

object. She first saw the object with her naked eye, then spent two minutes
looking for binoculars. Observed the object for about two minutes with them.
There were two flying objects; both appeared to have a blunt front and seemed
to taper to a point at the rear, The shape was very much like a cigar. The
sun was shining on them and they appeared to be silver in color. With the
naked eye, they appeared to be about the size of airplane when writing in the
sky. They were about 32" in length and 1" in diameter. In other words, they
seemed to be a little more than three times the diameter in length. Speed
was not estimated. Observed for approximately four minutes. When first seen,
they were headed northeast.:| Seemed to bob up and down rather than pursuing
a set and steady course. Altitude was judged to be approximately 3000 ft.

No sound audible from the object; no exhaust treil visible. First seen in
east going toward Fort Columbus, then moved generally north from there.

Binoculars were M3 ¢

The following was broadcast over radio this morning (9 Jul) but persor not yet
interviewed: On 7 July, five members of one family saw the objects which looked

like pie pans, directly over Port Columbus.

Interrogation ~~ ne
MCI AXO-3 woraxo-4 12 duly 48

1. Contacted Captain Dwight I. Boyd, District Intelligence Officer, 109 CIC
Detachment, Old Post Office Building, Columbus, Ohio, at 0900, 10 July 1948. Read the
agents’ report and proceeded with the agent to the home of Mrs. Paul Vittek, 2579
Avelon Avenue, Columbus, Ohio

2. Interviewed Mrs. Vittek and received the same information as contained in the
agents' report (WD AGO Porm 341) except that the bobbing movement described there was
brought out to be a amoothiguntilatirie: movement “like something going through air

currents".

3. ‘The subject stated that the object was ciger shaped, with a blunt nose and the
tail obecured. "I couldn't make it out plain. It was like a dark blot”. The main
thing that had attracted her attention was the sunlight reflected from the shiny center
of the object, both ends being indistinct.

4, The sudjects' powers of observation were checked on aircraft flying in the
area and were found to be good as far as direction and movement were concerned, but
for distance and altitude. The binoculars were checked and found to be Type M3,
x 30, with artillery mil scales imposed. No blemishes or defects in the optics were

found. The subject had no acurate idea as to the amount of the mil scale the object
occupied.

5. Acheck at Patterson Field Operations showed two F-80's in the air at the time
of the sighting. Contacted Captain Darnell, MORFOF, the pilot of one of the F-80's who
stated that he was in the Columbus area at the time of sighting. He was flying a loose
formation in trail cf Lt. Collins while pacing him on a calibrated speed check. The

oe were not equipped with wing tip tanks.

6. In view of the fact that Mrs. Vittek's sight of the objects was from a three
quarter rear position it is highly possible they were the two P-80's in the Columbus area -
as this position from a distance lends itself to a distortion comparable to what she saw,
i.e. blunt nose, obscure tail, and apparent lack of wings.

7.  <Acheck was made with the Intelligence Officer at the Port Columbus Naval
Air Station with negative results. ; a A

ATI Branch, Operations Section
Technical Intelligence Div

ie
2.

Be

be
6.
Te

8.

22.
236
ah.
256
26.

ue - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

Date 9 Jul 4s " Incidont # 139
Time 2147 :
Location North end ‘of Osborn, Ohio

Namo of observer (Clarence Glasebrook, lst Lt., USAT, Hq AMC (MCIAXO-4)
Occupation of obsorvor ATI Investigator

Address of obsorvor Hq AMC (MCIAXO-4)

Placo of observation ground

Numbor of objocts one

Distance of objoct from obsorvor n/s

Timo in sight Appeared 3 times each time being 1-2 second duration
Altitudo 3000 to 4000 feet
Speod between 500 & 600
Direction of flight west (east to west)

Tactics Made intermittent appearances at regulated intervals
Soumda None

Sizo could not be estimated

Color pale yellowish white (luminous)

Shapo N/S

Odor dotectod y/s

Apparent construction n/s

Exhaust trails None

Woathor conditions Clear w/quarter moon in the East-Southeast.
Effoct on clouds n/s

Skotches or photographs None

Manner of disappearance Suddenly at angle . rox. 70° to horizon

in front) of observ o was looking na th
Romarks: 3 y ‘
Lt. Glasebrook was a reconnaissance pilot in World War II.

AO eae 2

Unidentified Flying Object”

MCTAXO=3 MCTAKO-, 16 July ls

ls At 2147 hours on 9 July 19/8, the undersigned sighted an unidentified object
flying from east to west at approximately three or four thousand feet over the north
end of Osborn, Ohios

26 The object appeared as a pale yellowish white light that seemed to glows I+
was not a direct beame The light was traveling at a rate of speed between five or
six hundred milese It appeared long enough to allow the observer to determine its
flight path (approximately one to two seconds) and then went outs There was a pause
of three seconds, the light then reappeared agein for the same length of time, another
three-second pause and the pattern was repeateds After the third appearance it was
+ seen againe The final sighting was made with the object at an angle of approximately
to the horizon in front of the observer who was looking northe The last sighting
was slightly above the horizon to the west, just north of Pattern Fields The inter=
mittent appearance of the light was at a regulated intervale

Be The sky was clear with about a quarter moon rising in the East-southeast;
however, nothing could be ascertained except the glow of the lights ‘There was no sound
or traile

ls The undersigned was a reconnaissance pilot in World War II and served for
eight months in the 160th Reconnaissance Sqd+ (J«ePe) flying FP-SO type aircraft.
It is believed that his powers of observation are above average and that the estimates
of speed can be considered to be fairly accurates

CLARENCE GLAZEBROOK cwG/aw

lst Lt., USAF Ext 65310
Bldg 288
Post 201F

le
25
Be
he
Se
6.
Te
8.
De
10.
ll.
12.
2B.
ik.
15.

16.

17.
18.
19.
20.

21.

23.

eX
CHECK=LIST = UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

Date 1 July 198 Incidont # 10a
Time Between 2100 and 2200 hours

Location Gahanna, Ohio

Namo of observor Mr Jack Taylor

Occupation of obsorvor N/S but now active in National Guard
Address of observor n/s

Placo of obsorvation Gahanna, Ohio ( ground )
Numbor of objocts 1

Distanco of objoct from observer w/s

Timo in sight 2 seconds

Altitude 3000 to 4000 ft

Speod terrific

Diroction of flight Northeast to Southwest

Tactics Pursued xkraightxtina flat line of flight
Souna None

Sizo nfs

Color bright yellow-white

Shapo B/S

Odor dotectoa N/S

Apparont construction luminous

Exhaust trails WN/S

Woathor conditions Clear - bright moonlight
Effoct on clouds n/s

Sketches or photographs None

Manner of disappoarance N/S

Romarks : Mr. Chester Taylor gave the same version as that of his
son. Mr Taylor a did not observe the phenomenon.

Interrogation
MCTAXO-3 MCIAXO=) 19 July Le

1-  Proceeded to the home of Mr. Howard Enslow in Gahanna, Ohio, with an agent of
the 109th CIC Detachment at 1000, 10 July 1918.

2- Interviewed Mrs. Howard Enslow who stated that on the night of 1 July 1918
between 2100 and 2200 hours, she, Mr. Enslow, Mr. and Mrs. Chester Taylor and their Sons,
Harold and Jack, of 00 Grove St., Columbus, Ohio, sighted an unidentified object flying
through the air. Mrs. Enslow described it as a "Beattiful golden seucer glowing like a
halo with a silver rim around ite" Direction of flight was from Northeest to South-
west and the object was visible for approximately therr secondse Subject was very vague

appeared to attribute the phenomena to holy visitationse Was unable to contact
© Enslowe

3e Proceeded to the home of Mrs Chester Taylor and interviewed his son Jack, age
23, who had three years service and is now active in the National Guards He stated that
the object was a bright yellow-white light that moved through the sky at a terrific rate
of speeds It was a glow and not a directed light and was ahout two seconds in durations
It ditntt fade out but ceased abruptly. ‘The line of flight appeared to be flat and the
object appeared from the Northeast going Southwest, at an altitude of about three or
four thousand-feet. There was no audible noise although it was a quiet night and the
object appeared close in at an angle to the horizon of about forty-five degrees.
Although the sky was clear and the moon was bright nothing but the light was seens

ke Mr. Taylor's story was the same as that of his sonts. Mrs. Taylor was in the
ear and did not observe the phenomenas fhe other witness was not readily available.

Se Proceeded to the sight of the observation and determined that, under the con-

ions of course and altitude as estimated by the subject, it was possible that their
e of vision was restricted by a grove of trees thus limiting the observed line of
ight to the two three-second periods reporteds

CLARENCE GLASEBROOK CwG/ew

lst Lt, USAF Ext 65310
Bldg 288
Post 201F

10.
ll.
12.
13.
1h.
15.
16.
l7.
18.

19.

21.
22.
23.
2h.
25.
26.

stationary and constant for

CHECK=-LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS
Date 30 June 1948
Timo 11:25 A. rae to 1:27 PM and shortly thereafter
Location Hecla, South Dakota
Namo of observor Norman Pfutsenreuter
Oceupation of obgsorvor Chemical Engineer - Amateur Astronomer

Address of observor Hecla, South Dakota m

Placo of obsorvation Between Watertown, S. D., & Webster, Ss. D,

Numbor of objects 1

Distance of objoct from obsorvor y/s
Timo in sight Slightly over two hours
Altitude 150 miles (7)

Speod Stationary

Diroction of flight Stationary
pprox
Tactics Remained in one/pbsition then disintegrated

Soumd Wone

Sizo N/S

Color Like polished aluminum... -~
Shapo Changing

Odor dotoctod None

Apparont construction Seemed to be a cluster of parts a
Exhaust trails Particles of disintegrating mass left very faint

trails of vapor
Woathor conditions Brilliantly clear (CAVU) - Wind velocity 3 MPH

Effoct on clouds No clouds
Skotches or photographs Map showing locations of sightings
Manner of disappearance ‘Disintegrated into smaller pieces

Romarks: Object appeared as cluster of parts which remained fairly
some two hours when it underwent a rather slow

change in shape. A large chunk fell off, Within the next 2-. minutes the —
pation spot started to very sugeay, See eer Three larger parts meres 7
over i

é

away out from the mass and formed a perfect isometric triangle, the
remaining mass slowly moved into hu dreds of small parts seomingly
leaving very faint vapor trails, The three remaining parts continued
to move apart holding their related positions of a perfect triangle

but gradually getting smaller and fainter until they dissappeared some 9
minutes after the initial break-up. It could mmxtimeasily be seen

that the parts were moving away from the earth,

aha

ie
20

3e

De
6.
Te
8

10.

23
abe
256

26.

f
fk
kt

FLYING OBJECTS

Date Incidont # 12

Time

Location

Namo of observer Mr. Charles Shangle, Jr.
Occupation of obsorvor

Address of observor Boise, Idaho

Placo of observation

Number of objocts

Distance of object from obsorver

Timo in sight

Diroction of flight
Tactics

Sound

Sizo

Color

Shapo

Odor dotected

Apparent construction
Exhaust trails

Woathor conditions
Effect on clouds
Sketehes or photographs
Manner of disappearance

Romarks:

le

3.

he

7s a
Ee 11s 1D) i ORE E

WWE Gets S
CHECK-LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS
Date 2 July 4s - Incidont # yy
Time 0245 \

Location 20 miles south of Montgomery, Ala

Name of WSECST a Pilot Clarence Shipe Chiles & Co-Pilot John B,

Mr, McKelvie, (Occupation - N/S)
Occupation of obsorvor Pilot and Co-pilot, EAL

Address of obsorvor Atlanta Office of EAL

Placo of observetion Air - 20 miles south of Montgomery, Ala

Numbor of objects 1

Distance of object from observer s B/S

Timo in sight 5 to 10 seconds

Altitude 5,000 ft

speod 500 to 700 MPH (See Atlanta Constitution of 25 July 48)

Direction of flight Southwest toward Mobile end New Orleans

Tactics Pulled up with tremendous burst of flame (Atlanta
Constitution - 25 July 4g)

Soumd none

Sizo 100 ft long and sbout twice the diameter of "B-29"

Color n/S

Shapo cigar~shaped

Odor dotectod n/S

Apparent construction y/S

Exhaust trails red-orange fleme
blue fluorescent glow running beneath the object

Woathor conditions Full moon, cleer with broken cloud coverage of 4/10

at 6,000 ft
Bffoct on clouds 4/S - pulled up into one

Skotches or photographs 2
Manner of disappearance Disappeered intoa cloud

Romarks: See attached statements

le
2.
3e
he
5s
6.
Te
8.
De
10.
ll.
12.
13.
1h.

16,
17e

per eck.

CHECK=LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS
Date 24 July 4s : Incidont # ie
“Time 0230

Lécotion Near Blackstone, Va. enroute to Raleigh-Durham
Name of observor Louis Feldwery
Occupation of obsorvor pilot

Address of observer LGA
Placo of obsorvation Air - neer Blackstone, Va.

Numbor of objocts Maly trail seen
Distance of objoct from obsorvor n/s

Timo in sight 3/S

Altitude 3/8

Speed terrific speed -
Direction of flight 230°
Tactics ‘frail covered an 80° to 90° arc laterally’

Soumd a/s ) |

Size y/ s ) ;

color B/S - trail perceived - object |
) wes not seen

Shapo ¥/S )

Odor dotectoa B/S

Apparent construction y/s

Exhaust trails Seemed to be a jet or rocket trail

Woathor conditions at at Blackstone: 0/70 @ 4GF 112/73/72/
wew 5/987. Gremnsboro end Raleigh-Daveh had 0/15 plus

Effoct on clouds ¥/S LA

Sketches or photographs None

Marner of disappoararco ¥/S

Romarks: (over)

° RAPS esis

eee ae ae ee ee icked up t
appeared to be a jet or rocket trail. object leaving the trail was

at terrific speed in a southwesterly direction and as nearly as
they could edimate they calculated the degree of travel as 230°.

Ceey See re ene, wre Sime ef 215% The jet or rocket trail at no
time crossed their flight path. It wes on the distant western horizon at
approx 20° above the horizon, ‘The trail covered an 80° to 90° arc laterally.

-

Le]

NOTE: There is a 15 mimate difference in time f/this sighting ¥8(0230) to
: the Tockat sighting at 205 tn sttmta sue 100't0 iS atlee
stant. cent ee adem

WOTE: The above time (0230) tallies with another ‘sighting by another pilot
in the vicinity of Blackstone, Va, who saw a very unusual meteor
that appeared to be on a bearing of about 210° from them traveling
in a southerly direction above but close to the horizon,

id a

Supplement to Trip Report to Columbus, Ohio - i duly igs

Res Atlanta Sighting
THRU: Col Clingerman
TO: Col McCoy

and would periodically glance out the window.

There
illuminated the ground and the skies and the ground could clesrly be seen.
Frequently they passed cumulus clouds. On one occasion as he was 1
out he observed a sudden stresk of light moving in a southeastern direct:
across the airway above the plane. He wondered if it were lightning but

no

observed the flame moved in a straight lime and
was bright flame ~ he thought it was probably a light ch
the edges were mowof a yellow fleme. He shifted his posit:

for better observation, momentarily losing sight of it. Then

agoin, He estimated the flame to be about 1/2 as far above
plane was cbove the ground. He saw no physical shape - only
flame moving in a straight line. The whole experience wa:

detailed observation was absent. He heard no sound but stated that

vibration of the plane was much greater than normal end that
ble to hear amy sound from the outside,

3. In the interview Mr. McKelvie stated to Maj Llewell;
pilots seemed quite excited and that they appesred nervous over the episode,

:
:

= om O28 Be ER seo
a CUR BP & :
Atlanta, Ga.

Mr, S, L, Shannon
Eastern Air Lines
Miami, Fla,

The following is a zepert of an unidentified aircraft which
was sighted by John tted and me, as we were twenty miles
southwest of Mon’ » Ala. July 24, 1948, as we were on
Eastern's trip 576.

At 2:45 A, M. we were cruising at 5,000 feet when there came, ‘
what looked like a Jet type of atrcraft to our right end slightly .
above meeting us. It wes a clear moonlight night with the visi-

bility excellent; therefore, we were able to view ti as
passed for 2 period of eround ten seconis, It
were no wings present, that it wes by her

type of power shooting fleme from the rear some fifty feet. There
were two rows of windows,which indicated an and lower deck, from
inside these windows « very bright light was glowing. Underneath the
ship there was a blue glow of light,

After it passed it pulled up inte some light broken clouds }
end was lost from view. There was no

felt ss it passed,

After talking to the only passenger awake at the time, he
oo eo ae

I called the company at Co’
ported fet arny craft and requested if the ATC had any aircraft
under control. I was tela that no such craft was reported by
either source,

3
:
8

/s/ ©. % Chiles
G. Ss Chiles
Capt EB. A. L,
CG Ok Teka
WW el NOP Sw el ee

17.
18,
19.
20.
me,
22.
23.
2h.
256
26.

CHECK*LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

Date 2 duly 4g
Time 0230

Incidont #

Location Between Blackstone, Va. and Greensboro, N..C.

Name of observer

Occupation of obsorvor

Address of observor

Capt Perry R, Mansfield,
Capt on 571/23 EAL
EAL

1a

Placo of obsorvation Between Blackstone, Va. end Greensboro, HN. C.

Numbor of objects

Distance of object from observer

Timo in sight
Altitude  N/S

Spood meteoric

Diroction of flight

1

3 seconds

southerly

Tactics traveling horizontally

Souna 4/8
sizo 4/8
color ¥/S
Shapo 4/s

Odor dotectod n/s

Appa rent construction

1/s

Exhaust trails N/S

Woathor conditions MXS CAVU

Effoct on clouds

4/8

Skotches or photographs None

Manner of disappearance

Romarks: (over)

"4ied out" in the

CORT Ee

ae
4328 Bee

n/s

distance

pilot
At about 0230 on July 24, 1948, C. Kingsley/and Cept Perry R. Mensfield
Saw what they thought was an unusual meteor. apo brighter than
any ever seen before and traveling in a horizontal direction, slightly
above the horizon. It was observed for 3 seconds before it dicd out,
At no time did it appear to travel in a downward direction, Kingsley
& Mansfield discussed the matter that the meteor appesred to be travel-
ing horizontally.

At the time they were traveling between Blackstone, Va., and Greensboro,
S. C.. The sky was clear and the visibility unlimited, They were ona
magnetic heading of 240° and estimated the object to be on a bearing of
about 210° fpom them ~ that is - about 30 ° to the left of their heading,
It appecred to be traveling in a southerly direction, above, but close
to the horizon.

NOTE: There is a 15 minute variance in ‘ikem time f/this sighting
(0230) to the rocket sighting at O245 in Atiemte some 400 to
475 miles distant, The time (0230) also tallies with Inc like
Pilot Louis Feldwary's account of sighting a jet or rocket trail
just after leaving Blackstone.

- | ae ——

@e © °c! ™@e
J wWsIs Yas tm OO BOO en

i CHECK-LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS :
1. Date 9 July 1948 : Incidont # 15

2. Time 1205 AST ~

3e Location Fielding Leake
4. Namo of observors 1st Lt Dominick J. Caramia & Thomas B. Carpenter
5. Occupation of obsorver s(VLR) Photo
6. Address of observor: 72nd RCN Squadron (VIR) Photogrephic

c/o APO 731, c/o Postmaster Seattle Washington
7. Placo of obsorvetion Fielding Lake, Alaska (63°11' - 145° lo! w

8. Numbor of objects Approximately 20

9. Distance of objoct from obsorver 5,000 + above
10. Timo in sight 5 seconds or less
ll. Altitude 5,000 + immediately below the clouds
12. Speod ~ over 500 MPH
13. Direction of flight From WNW to ESB

14. Tactics Jockeyed back end forth in the group formation (gave
impression of shotgun blest pattern) but maintained straight

15. Sound Lomi
Loud roaring sound heard (thought it was strong wind) before |

@ot objects were sighted; sound sharpened into a buzz as they
tea Bae approached and passed,

\ A 17. Color grayish black

Shapo Sochetxapmxrentigoxxenixfram Spheroid or disc-shaped i

19, Odor dotectoed N/S

w
@Q
.

20. Apparent construction  N/S |
21. Exhaust trails none visible
_ 22, Woathor conditions bright and sunny w/,2 strato-cumilus cloud coverage
| 23. Effoct on clouds none - flew immediately below them
2h.  Skotehes or photographs sketopy FR :
(25. Manner of disappoaranco N/s  w/ W/ BW U

Romarks; The odjects resembled a group of dots, grayish black in
color and numbering about 20, They were plainly visible and either

F spheroid or dise shaped. hay appmereet be ockeying beck tnd
(over

SERENE eae BBL?! eee SAW et ON A Rg sae oni nee ESE Saba etn

(

a“

i.

be

re

18,
19.
20.

el.

gee
co} pf

CHECK-LIST = UNIDENTIFIED FLY’
Date 17 duly 1948 Incidont # 146

Time 1650
Location Vieinity of San Acacia Dem, 65 miles south of Albuquerque

Hamo of observer 8 M/Sgt Wm R, Carter & M/Set Bernard E. Harvey

fax Carter: Armament technician
Harvey: experienced AF non-com

Address of observor 428th AFBU Kirtland AF Base
Placo of observetion Vicinity of Sen Acacia Dem

Occupation of obsorvors

Numbor of objcets 7

Distanco of objoct from observer 4/8

Timo in sight ¥/S

Altitude 20,000 ft

Spood 1,500 MPH (if estimated altitude correct)

Diroction of flight northerly heading (between north and northwest)
Tactics Maintained formation

Souna B/S

Sizo y/s

color Goler of alumimum aircraft at high altitude

shapo Waen overhead: cirealar, After passing zenith: indeterminate
Odor dotectod 3/S }

Apparent construction metallic s
Exhaust trails none . 2
Weather conditions cAyD At 20,600 ft wind velocity 8 to 10 miles
ekroue od ievoute _a/s

Sketches or photographs Hone

Manner of disappearance 2S In northwest

Romarks: (over)

JXISST CE ELOV G Cth.

About 65 miles south of Albuquerque 7 unidentified objects flying on
northerly heading were observed, Objects initielly in V formation at

traveling at a great rate of speed, The color wes that of aluminum at

+ It the altitude estimation
is correct the speed could be estimated as 1500 MPH, There was no vapor,
smoke or other trail visible, They did not appear spherical when viewed
at oblique angle. Disappeared on heading between north and northwest.

AGENTS NOTES: Set Carter is 2 sober industrious, level heeded individual,
an armament technician of outstanding vaste © Definitely
not the type to experience hallucinations, fo received
in other instances from this individual in each instance
proven accurate,

Sgt Harvey is an experienced AF non-com accustomed to
the sight of aircraft at various altitudes and speeds,

EVALUATION OF INFORMANTS: "A"
OF INFORMATION: 3,

he |
5e
6.
Te
8.
De
10,
aii
12.6.
.
1h.
15.
16.
17.
18.

19.

26.

CHECKLIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS
Date 27 duly 19hg

Time + 2200

Location Springfield, Ohio

Hame of observer Mrs, H, H, Gibson
eee of obsorvor Housewife

\sddross of observor , 1217 East Main St.

[Place of observetion Springfield, Ohio
Nunbor of objects z
Distance of object from obsorver N/S :

Tino in sight 3 seconds

Altitude Great height

Speoa Thet of a jet plane

Diroction of flight Heading North

Tactics None - traveled in a straight line

Sound None

Size Witness stated object resembled a "mmge ball"
Color n/s

Shape Round

Olor dotectea None

Apparent construction 4/s

Exhaust trails Bright red teil of fire.

Weather conditions Some thunder and lightning
Effoet on clouds 4/5

Sketches or photographs None

Manner of disappearance Flew out of sight ‘

Romarks: See attached

CONFIDENTIAL

Incidont # 147

4

al

10.
nl.
2.
13.
1h.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.

ps
22.

2.

256

| ak ;
CHECK=LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

Date 28 July 194g
Time a i .
Loestion Springfield, Ohio

Kamo of observor Mrs. Rose Henry

visa of obgorvor Housewife

Address) of observor 826 Dibert Aveme, Springfield, Ohio
Placo of observetion 26 Dibert Ave., Springfield, Ohio
Number or objects 1

Distancy of objoct from obsorvor 3/§

Timo ines Ist time: 5 mimates; 24 time: 15 mimtes

Altituag N/S

Spood | Remained nearly stationary

ibbestsen of flight N/S

Tactics Hovering

tness thought she heerd sound of plane before she
Sound ms wented ob geet fs

Size About the size of a basketball
Color Intense yellow

Shapo Ron

Odor dotected n/s

Apparent construction 4/8

Bxhaust trails 0/8 P
Woathor conditions M/S

Effoct on clouds N/S ,
Skotehcs or photographs Tone
Mannor of disappoerance Faded away

vB.

lve

19+

20.

2l.

23.

256
26,

OT RIG | te!

CHECK-LISt - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS
Date 19 Jen 4g Incidont # 149
Time 7:30 M
Location North Jutland (Hjerrin, the Scaw and Hjerup)
Name of observor 4W/S
: Taken from OMA R-34-48 (HAD 11796)
Oceupation of obsorvor W/S as prepared by Lt Col Franklin E,
Tomlinson
Address of observor 48/8
Placo of observation ~ North Jutland
Numbor of objocts AX Three
Distance of object from observer x/s
Timo in sight W/S
Altitude 4/8
Speed epperently rocket-like
Direction of flight 2K East - West
Tactics “suddenly stopped, exploded and disappesred"
Sound u/s
Size B/: 8
Color ¥/ s
Shapo ball - saucer
Odor dotectod 3/s
Apparent construction rocket~like objects
Exhaust trails ‘mttoa& tail of green light
Woathor conditions 3/8
Effoct on-clouds ¥/ s
Sketches or photographs Wone 3
Manner of disappearance “Exploded and disappeared

Romarks: (over)

17.
18.
19.
20,
al.
22.
23.
bbe

“256
26.

CHECK-LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS"
Date Approx 1 Mar 4g Incidont # 150
Time “0930 hours
Location Swedish Coast

Namo of observor WN/S = a Norwegisn pilot

Occupation of obsorvor ONL pilot

Address of obsorvor y/s Material taken from MA R-130-48

Placo of obsorvation Air = enroute from sates meee
* Oslo, Norway

Numbor of objocts 1

Distance of objoct from observor y/s

Timo in sight 4 seconds

Altitude 20,000 ft

Spoca WN/S

Direction of flight Southeast - passing along Swedish Coast

and disappearing over Norway

Tactics  N/S - flight path followed earth's surface

Sound W/S

Size 3/s ak tiee

color B/S wat @ bluish-green flame

Shapo y/s

Odor dotectod n/s

Apparent construction y/S

Exhaust trails Mone

Woathor conditions 4§/S

Effoct on clouds §/S

Skotches or photographs None

Manner of disappearance Over Norway

Romarks: (over)

An ONL plane enroute from 4albverg, Denmark, to Oslo, Norway, sighted a
Projectile coping from the southeast, passing along the Swedish Coast

and disappearing over Norway. The missile was at 20,000 ft and disappeared
over the horizon in four seconds, It comitted@ a bluish-green flame but

left no trail in the sky. The projectile seemed to fimm follow the
earbh's surface. i

NOTE: Similar missiles have been observed at Bjuken, Norway & Finse,
Norway.
In this connection, it is of interest to know that heavy water
is currently being produced in Rjuken,

Observers: A Norwegian pilot and his co-pilot,

The pilot served with the Royal Norwegian AF in
Great Britain,

eo fem

Te

8

De
10.

11.

&e .

w Wat

CHECK=LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS
Date 29 duly 1948 BARU gL
Time 0955
Location Northeastern part of Indianapolis, Indiana (See attached

sketch of location)
Name of observers Mr. Jemes W. Toney & Mr, Robert Huggins

Occupation of obsorvors Both employees of W. 0. Jones Rug
Cleaners “hee
Address of observer  foney3 235 So Bradley, Indianapolis
Huggins: 5040 Indiansole, lis

Placo of obsorvation (See attached drawing of locatio:

Numbor of objocts 1
Distanco of object from obsorvor W/S - not over a few hundred feet
Timo in sight 4/S

Altitudo 30 feet - just above tree-tops

Speed 25 to 30 MPH

Direction of flight Headed south in bank to left

Tactics gliding with no apparent spinning action

Sound no discernible sound

Size 6 to 8 feet long by 1-1/2 to 2 feet wide (See attach drwg.)
Color Aluminum and shiny in color

Shapo Shaped like a broad short propeller (See attached drwg.) ©
Pica diskaciad < om/e

Apparent construction Rauinenleonetraniien

Exhaust trails None

Woathor conditions CAVU - no clouds

Bffoet on clouds Wo elouds

Skotches or photographs 2 7
Manner of disappoaranes Went down in wooded area (seemingly)

Cm y

Romarks: (over) “ : apne i By

VS

A AYES PPA mm Ace AR

Object was shaped like a broad short propeller approximately 6 to § ft long,
each blade approximately 2 feet wide and approximately one foot thick with
cups on upper side of blades. It ered alumimm and shiny in color,
Traveled approximately 25 to 30 It was sighted just above the trees
at approximately a 30 ft altitude in bank to the left of approx 20° and
appeered in a slight descent. There was no discernible sound end no ex-
haust trail,

NOTH: ‘ruck had just started across bridge (see drwe) when object was
sighted directly ahead above the trees, Witnesses stopped on the
other side of the cantilever bridge but could not relocate object.

Seerch by Lt John E, Hoskins, Base PIO, and Lt Russell J. Carey, Jr.

Base Intel Off. (331st AFBU) Res Tng Stout Fld. did not produce any
result. However the area in which it was believed to have fallen is

densely wooded with many hills and valleys, See diagram attached.

6' to st

/s/ Russell J, Carey, Jr,
ist Lt., USAF
Intel Officer

a
-*

he

CHECK=LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

Date 31 July 4s ‘ , Tmeddent # 152
‘Time 0825 ”
Location Inddemapolis, Indiana (South-Central part) 4

Name of observers Mr, & Mrs Vernon Swigert

Occupation of obsorvors X@#HBEX an electrician and housewife
Address of observors 2020 Boyd St., Indianapolis, Indiana
Placo of observetion As above —

Numbor of objects 1

Distance of object from observer ¥/S

Timo in sight 10 seconds

Altitude 2,000 ft

Speed 1890 MPH

Direction of flight 90° = east

Tactics N/S

Sound None £

Sizo » OGEXE - © tt 10 ee

center - Ratio about 3:1
Color white with no shine

Shapo like a cymbal

Odor dotectod. ¥/S 7
Apparent construction u/s

Exhaust trails _ None

Wotthor omanetons Sky clear

Effoct on cow y/S

Sketches or photographs 1

Manner of disappearance 4/S

Remarks: (over)

Object first perceived in the west. The object wes shaped like a cymbal

with smooth surfaces and approximetely 20 feet in diameter at the base

and epproximetely 6 to & feet in height in the center. Ratio was sbout 3:1.
It appeared to be flat white tn color with no shine. It traveled extremely —
fast crossing the eky in approximately 10 seconds (a distance of about 5 miles,
on a 90° heading, It maintained a level course and shimmered in the cun i
giving the appearance of spinning, The altitude wes estimated at approx
imately 2,000 ft. Object made no discernible sound and left no exhaust trail.
No openings were noted. on the object.

NOTE: Mr. Swigert was standing by open bathroom wimimxm window which
faces the west when he wes attracted by the object in the sky.
Couldn't believe his eyes. He rushed into adjoining kitchen
and showed his wife the object thru the kitchen window facing south.
He xhmmgkt stated the object appeared large enough to carry one
person

NOTE: Investigation conducted by Intel Officer, 1st Lt Russell J. Carey,
Jr., on @ call from Mr. Swigert, It wes noted that visibility was
good from both windows for such observation,

No other reports received on this object.

e sd Vi
le
2.
3e
he
5e

Te.
8.

10.
id.
12.
i.
1h.
15.
16.
4 17.

18.

-STRICHED

CHECK=LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS
Dato ‘Xfce 5 Angust hg Incidont # 153
Time 0100 hours
Location Between Parrott, Ga, and Richland,Ga.
Namo of observor Jemes Amaral, Former AF Pilot
Occupation of obsorvor 4/S ~ but formerly AF pilot
Address of observor W/S (Info forwarded f/Turner AF Base)
Placo of obsorvation Between Perrott, Ge, & Richlani, Ga.
Numbor of objects 1
Distance of object from observer ¥/S
Timo in sight 5 to 10 seconds
Altitude 20,000 to 35,000 ft
Spood Jf 3600 MPH (estimated)
Direction of flight 250°

Tactics “N/S .

Sound Wone

Size W/S

Color Ddlue=white streak of light
Shapo “stfeak"

Odor dotectod 4/S

Apparent construction "rocket-like"

Bxhaoust trails A trail of sparks several miles long followed it
Woathor conditions CAV

Effoct on clouds -N/S

Sketches or photographs None

Manner of disappearance a/s

Romarks: (over)

a5

A

Witness was Scovel ing Detween Parrott, Ge., and Richland, Ga., in an
aatomobile when he observed a brilliant blue-wite streak of light which
lasted from 5 to 10 seconds, traveling in an apparent level flight on a
heading of approximately 250°, at about 30,000 ft altitude (estimated).
After the light disappeared a trail of sparks was observed which appeared
several miles long. This trail lasted from 45 seconds to (1) mimte

NOTE: Mr. Amaral did not believe this to be any celestial bat based on
his experience as a pilot in the AF, he stated it appeared to be
a burst of power applied to a rocket or rocket ship.

le
2.
be
he
5e
6.
Te

Qe
10.
ll.

12.

CHECK=LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

Dato 2 dug 4S

Pas 1945 hours

Location Columbus, Ohio

Namo of observor Charles Saunders

Occupation of obsorvor Sttorna

Address of observor 2651/2 South High St

Incidont # 154

Placo of observation Yard of 1337 Clifton Ave., Columbus, Ohio

Numbor of objects 1

Distance of object from obsorvor 8/8

Timo in sight 1615 mimtes
Altitude 1,500 to 2000 ft
Spood 15 MPH i

Direction of flight Moving south from the north
Tactics Constant slow speed - Once it hesitated & thin trail of

Sound None

Sizo Judged to be about 20 to 30 ft in diameter
color W/S, Perimeter: constant grey-black, Center:

amoke issued from opposite direction of travel. Changed position assuming

different shapes

transparent.

circalar
Sha po Changing. First: side-view: Parallelogram. Second: steskuar

then reverted to original form
Odor dotectoa B/S

Apparent construction y/s

Exhaust trails thin trail of smoke

ather conditions CAV

Effoct on clouds Mo clouds
Sketches or photographs 4 sketches
Manner of disappearance y/S

Romarks: (over)

D
>

957

2 Ang 48 at approx 1945 a round object which appeared to be about 20 to
ft in diemeter was observed moving in southerly direction from the

rth over center of Columus, Had constant grey=black perimeter with a
transparent center, The blue sky could be observed through this grey~black
perimeter while it moved at a constant, slow speed of about 15 MPH, It
made no noise of any kind, Once it hesitated in its movesents and a thin
trail of anoke issued from the opposite direction of travel, The smoke

soon disappesred and wes not seen again during the 10 to 15 mimtes object
was visible to the observer, The object changed position = but not direction
of travel - three times. When first seen, it evidently presented a side
view which was a perellelogram in shape. (See). Slowly its position altered
and it became circular in form, only to revert after a time to its original
form, The altitude was judged to be some 1500 to 2000 ft above ground.

SP

8

Agent's Note: Saunders drew the following sketches

a me

The above drawings const: Pare emncpestttens ef) 2nd yhnes. The
GEatt pasted ns’ sates' at thnen ghozee @uring the 15 mimte period,

2 + @

tes

ie

3e
he
5s
6.
Te
8.
oe
10.
12,
12.
i.
1h.
15.
16.
17.
18,
19.
20.

21.

23.
ah.
25.
26.

CHECK-LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS
Dike; fee dna NE Incidont # 15Me
Timo 7250 P.M.

Location Columbus, Ohio

awe of observer Jaymes Seunders, A, B., M, A,
Occupation of obsorver Housewife

Address of observor 1337 Clifton Ave, Columbus, Ohio
Placo of obsorvetion Columbus, Ohio

Numbor of objocts a

Distance of object from obsorvor B/S

Timo in sight 15 mimtes

' Altituae WME 1/2 mile high

Speod slow ahd regular speed
eer Fy flight ° from North to South to Southwest

Tactics/ Oblong to circular to oblong change in shape

Souma Wone
Size of emall plane
Color a/s

Shapo Changing but circular for the most pert

Odor dotectod . ¥/S

Apparent construction’ ¥/S -

Exhaust trails teil of smoke

Woathor conditions fevoreble for observation. Light sufficient
without interference from son's rays.

Effoct on clouds Cloadless

Skotehes or photographs, None

Manner of disappearance 3/8

Remarks: (ower)
a

oI

oS ee cB at 7:50 P. M. Mrs, Saunders observed an umsusl
pinnate the esky. Her attention was directed toward it becouse

some neighborhood children were Seem eden the north. ‘She
called her lmsband, Charles Saunders, (Inc 154) to witness the
phenomenon, ‘The sky was cloudless and the light more than
sufficient, without interference from the rays of the sun which
were hidden by the buildings of the city.

Object first sppesred oblong in shape and was traveling from
north to south at a slow, reguler speeds MEEJSEEXGRMSTEREXERIEES
at a height of a half mile. During the 15 mimtes under
observation the object treveled approx 7-1/2 miles. Although
it did not change its course, it presented different erences
from time to time. Pron chleig' ts eireutae tlhe Ae anlong.
Object went thru this change three different times until observer
lost sight of it. However, for the most part it presented a cir~
colar appesrance, Se
of the center. : o3

da smoke emanating from the
rear, “efter wzich the object contimed in a southerly direction,
This tail of smoke was observed but once, The size appeered to be
that of a small plane, It made no sound altho at one time observer
thought she detected one, At approx 6:00 P, M. observer lost sight
of the object just as it appeared to be changing direction from
South te Southwest.

10.

ll.

12,

156
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.

23.

256
26.

CHECK=LIST = UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS
Date 3632 «531 July Lee
Time 1630
Location 480 N. Monroe Ave.,
Namo of observor Mre, Edwerd G, Wateon

Incident # 155

Oceupation of obsorvor Housewife

Address of obsorvor 480 N. Monroe Ave., Columbus, Ohio
Placo of obsorvation Columbus, Ohio ~
Numbor of objocts 6er7 5

Distance of object from observer Very great distance away
Timo in sight B/S

Altitude M/S <= very great

Speod Hovering

Direction of flight 4/8

Tactics Hovering hanging in the sky

Sound y/s -

Size of am ash tray

Color gold

Shapo -— starlike

Qdor dotectod x/s

Apparent construction ¥/S

Exhaust trails n/s

Woathor conditions CAYU - bright sunlight

Effoct on clouds y/s
None

a/s

Skotches or photographs
Manner of disappearance

Romarks : (over) va FR

4b

Witness Statement: — - .

+ distance and appeared to be about
s
lor and seemed to be just hanging in the sky.

Corrowated by truck driver but/Sutd aot obtain his name,

le
2.
36
Le
De
5.

8,
on
10.
ll.

12.

17

19.
20,
21.

22.

23.

GE lev
CHECK-LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS
Date 31 duly 48
Time 8:00 P. M,
Location + Columbus, Ohio ~ Trement Rd near WSU radio tower

located near University Golf Course
Name of observer Mrs, Martin Price & Mrs. Mary Rippetoe

Mrs. Price: housewife
Mrs. Mary Rippetoe: mother of Mrs, Price

Address of observor 2186 Lemont Aves, Columbus, Ohio
Placo of observation fremont Rd near WOSU Badio Tower

Incidont # 156

Occupation of obsorvor

Numbor of objocts 2

Distance of objoct from observer 250 feet
Timo in sight 3/S

Altitude 250 feet

Speed very slow

Direction of flight West to East

Tactics Did not change course or altitude
Sound No noise

Sizo of gasoline drum = Approx 5' x 6!
Color RX Black

Shapo Oblong

Odor dotectod ¥s

Apparent construction n/s

Exhaust trails Spouted black smoke from the top
Woathor conditions Clear with no clouds

» Bffoct on clouds No clouds

Sketches or photographs None f .

Manner of disappearance 3/S
Romarks : (above) SGT bag se‘

De

On Saturday evening, 31 July 4S, at approximately 8:00 P. M. ,
while driving south on Tremont Road as observers approached the WOSU
Radio Tower located on the University Golf Course, a large object resem-
bling a Img lantern was seen floating in the sky. The weather ws
clear, and it was still daylight so object could be seen quite clearly.
It was oblong in shape and about the size of a gasoline drum, It was
coming from the west and moving very slowly. It passed close to the
tower and was about 1/2 the height of the tower from the ground. As
it passed overhead traveling east, it spouted black smoke from the
the left side there was a dull enclosed light
1; that of a lamp. ‘The object did not change its course or altitude
but continued on to the east with black smoke trailing behind, The
object was black, It did not make any noise. There were no wings visible
nor did it have any motor. No openings of any kind could be seen.

NOTE: Another car stopped near them with two occupants who claimed
that they had never witnessed anything like it before.

le
2.
Be

he

CHECK*LIST = UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS
Date 31 duly 48 Sar Znoidont # 157
Time $390 P. M,
Location Columbus, Ohio
Name of observor Robert C. Goshorn
Occupation of obsorvor ‘Teletype Operator
Afidress of obsorvor State Highway Patrol Radio Station
Phoeo of obsorvetion Near Golf Driving Ragge, Columbus, Ohio
Number of objects 1

thetic of object from obsorver Object was balloon which fell
to earth & was investigated by observer

Timo in sight Ws

Altitude Ceme to earth from around 100 ft (when first observed)

Speed 8/8 ‘

iirdetada of flight earthward

Tactics 3/8

Sound y/s

Sizo 2 ft x 3-1/2 tt

Golor white crepe paper

dhapo N/S = bat said to be like old time "County Fair" balloon - round

ddor dotoctoa ¥/S

FRREGE construction crepe paper

Pehaust trails smoking - cmsed by large ball of weste material

Woathor conditions W/S = (clear = see Incident: 156)

Effoct on clouds B/S (no clouds)

$kotcHes or photographs None

Manner of aiweinsetarie Fell to earth where it was retrieved.

Remarks: (over) 3
1 > 9 EPSP AP

Fz 8.

fr er

vy

by

Object was perceived floating in the sky coming from the west over Ohio
State Student Housing Project and was approximately 100 feet off the ground
when first observed. It got lower all the time and landed in a field nearby.
Taree small boys ran toward it end observer went over to investigate.

Saw paper beg affair approx 2 feet in diaketer and 3-1/2 feet long made of
white crepe paper. (like old time "County-Fair" hot air balloons) It

was smoking when first observed and this was caused bya large ball of waste

material woich was fastened underneath it. There were no marks or writing
mmnbchoico

on it
;

Hote: See Incident 156 - in which time & direction tally.

IE
2.
3e
he
5.
6
Te
8.
De

10.
ls,

12.

13.

lhe

15.

16.

17s

18.

19.

20.

21.

25-
26.

&
| OGG REI ERM ia:

CHECK=LIST = UNIDENTIFIED’ FLYING OBJECTS

Date 1 dug hs Incidont # 158
Time 2:00 P. M.

Location §S%H9KIE Groveport, Ohio

vhmo of observer Harold A, Yantis

Occupation of obsorvor Student, &

Address of observor 25 West Hinman Ave,

Flaco of observation ] mile west of Groveport, Ohio
sada of objocts 1 P

Distance of object from obsorvor u/s

Timo in sight y/s
.Altitudo fit very high

Speca /S

Direction of flight im westerly direction against a light wind

Tactics N/S - just exhast visible - smoke pattern dark & very large
spices coo emer t wena mame pret streak a mile or so in length
Sound No sound twisted from wide to narrow streak

: and back,

$izo W/S - object not seen

Color W/S = object not seen

Shapo duét a streak observed

Odor dotectoa B/S

Apparent construction sfx An exhaust trail (smoke)

Exhaust trails Appeared as black cloud with no definite shape but looked

like an anti-aircraft shell a few seconds after it exploded

Woather conditions ioudposomineootoods Few white clouds - but Geer
Effect on clouds black cloud silhouetted among them that moved
Sketches or photographs 3 figs.

Mannor of disappoaranco 4¥/S

Romarks: (over)
> ea

RH ey Ue _ Et Eas 8 US Seo

Vve /

Observer noticed what appeared to be a small black cloud between
two white ones. ‘Seemed peculiar becemse the weather was
there were a few white clouds in sky - but no other dark clouds
or formations of any kind, The black cloud did not have any definite
shape but looked like an anti-aircraft shell a few seconds after it
explodes. Suddenly it stretched out into a wide streak with smaller
vertical streaks, then rapidly turned and twisted, moving into a
different direction and disappearing. In three or four seconds, the
smoke burst appeared again spontaneously, approximately 20° west
of the place where first noticed. Smoke pattern dark, very large, end
dispersed rapidly, appearing again as a wide streak a mile or so in
length which appeared to twist from a wide to a narrow streak and then
back again changing direction as it twisted. Moving in westerly
direction against light wind. Plainly visible altho far awey and very high.
No sound heard. Seemed like a streak that would be made if a flying
ae ore engines Witi= banking and turning and leaving exhaust
8. =

Note: Yantis was in the war and had seen a lot of anti-aircraft
shells burst and many vapor trails from planes but had never
observed anything like this. He states: "It was so spontaneous
Like a rubber band which is round, then suddenly is stretched at
length and twisted, and then disappears without a trace."

Agent's Note: Yantis drew the sketches below

Streak twisted and turned - suddenly disappeared n

AED 28

Sie z ees 283) let position
width same - length |
estimated at 1 to 2 miles

17.
18.
19.

20.

6 gy ¢ ey A oR OP ee
| e. % bee SY BESS WwW 4 e. t
CHECK=LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS
Gs 30 July 1948 Incidont # 159
ime 2015 hours

Location Worthington, Ohio

Name of observer John A, Felton
Occupation of obsorvor N/S

Address of observor 5800 High St, Worthington, Ohio
Placo of observation Worthington, Ohio
Numbor of objocts 1

Distance of object from obsorvor y/s
Timo in sight 15 mimtes

Altitude Approx 3000 ft

Spooa very slow

Direction of flight Sw

Tactics None

Sound None

Sizo ¥/S

Color silver

Shapo cylindrical

Odor dotectea N/S

Apparent construction y/s

Exhaust trails N/S

Woathor conditions Glear with high scattered clouds, visibility good
Effoct on clouds N/s 5

Sketches or photographs None

Manner of disappearance n/S

Romarks: (over)

e & ww

Object appeared cylindrical in shape with no apparent wings or tail
sarfaces, No standard marker lights were displayed and there were no
engine noises, The object emitted a steady silver glow.

Altitude was gudged to be approximately 3000 ft and the object was moving
very slowly in a southwest course. It was in line of vision some 15 mimtes.
No other aircraft, military or civilian were in vicinity of Felton's

hearing or vision. The sky was clear with high scattered clouds and

the visibility was good.

NOTE: Felton questioned by Maj Campbell of the USAF, but nothing
further was gained by this interview with the exception
that his wife also saw the object.

17.
18.

20.
21,
22)
23.
2h.
256
26.

e reo |

CHECK=LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

a

é %
pate 4 July 48 Incidont_ # 160
Time 11:15 P.M.

Location Dravasburg, Pa.

Namo of observer John Jannicky, Jr.

Occupation of obsorvor y/s

Address of observor Box 227, Dravasburg, Pa.

Placo of observetion Dravasburg, Pa.

Numbor of objocts 1

Distance of objoct from observer 4/8

Timo in sight 20 seconds +

Altitude N/S

Speed Hovering - then moving on at undetermined speed

Diroction of flight 48/8

Tactics moved across sky, stopping three times and resuming movement
Sound No noise

Sizo of a star

Color same as a star
Shapo looked like a ster
Odor dotectod ‘n/S
Apparent construction 4/S

Exhaust trails n/s

Woathor conditions 4/S

Effect on clouds n/s : E
Sketches or photographs — Vague sketch

Manner of disappearance | a/s

Romarks: (over)

S

On 4 July 48 at appro. 11:15 P. M., OST, witness and his wife thought
they sew a star moving. There was a light in the sky the same color and
size of a star which was moving. wkexfiestnsy tee omens

iocthexeiexiizoxtichexabjertxiit, Then they thought it was a plane but

it made no noise. The object moved across the sky, then changed its course

a bit and went straight and stopped again for about 5 seconds, changed its

course a bit and went straight for awhile and stopped again this time forat

least 15 seconds, then it went across the sky a little ways and disappeared
etely. When the object stopped in the sky, it resembled a star and only

by following its course could the difference be noticed.

NOTE: Witness states that he lives some 2-1/2 miles from the two woman
(McKeesport, Pa.) who reported seeing a big silver plate zooming
cera overhead in the direction of Kennywood Perit. See Inc.
161.

le
2.

3e

5e
be
Te

8.

10.

ll.

12.

ihe
15.
16.
py
18.
19.
20,

21.

CHECK=LIST = UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS | %

o. Around July 8, 48 : Incidont # 161
Time 4/S i : epee : roe
Location McKeesport, Pa.

Namo of observer Mrs, Nell Veway & Mrs. Elizabeth Goltz
Occupation of obsorvor housewife i ¢

Address of observor s ee Patirsd 26 ee op) ixeeeat Pa,
Placo of cake Gece McKeesport, Pa.

Numbor of objocts 1

Distanco of objoct from observer n/s

Timo in sight ¥/S
Altitude 43/8
Speod n/s
Diroction of flight WN/S - toward Kennywood Park
Tactics y/s

Sound noiseless

Size 12 to 15 inches in dia,

Color silver

Shapo “plate”

Odor dotectea N/S

Apparent construction N/S

Exhaust trails 4/S

Woather conditions y/s

Effoct on clouds disappeared in cloud bank
Sketches or photographs None

Manner of disappearance disappesred in bloud bank

Romarks: (over) f . y SD pe

723

Oo; “@

\ ‘A
Witness saw what looked like a "big, silver plate" zooming noiselessly
overhead in the direction of Kennywood Perk.

"Qh look, that's not a plane, screamed Mrs. Veway of 3404 Grover to
her neighbor, Mrs. Goltz, 3604 Grover, “it lookeglike one of those
flying saucers."

Mrs, Vewey said the disc was about 12 to 15 inches in diemeter. It
disappeered in a cloud pank but reappeared on the far side and was seen
by Mrs. Goltz. They followed the direction of the disc until out of

sight.
NOTE: ‘Teken from the Daily News "McKeesport, Pa. - July 8, 1948.

/020—
ah.
256
26.

CHECK=LIST = UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS
Date 11 Ang 48

Time | 1200 and 1215 hours CST

Locapion Hemel, Minnesota

Namo of observer Jerome Leuer (age 10 and Benne Lever (age 8)
Occupation of obsorvor children ‘
Address of observor B/R 1 Eemel, Minnesota

Placo of obsorvation As sbove - back yard

Numbor of objocts 1

Distance of object from obsorver 4 matter of a few feet
Timo in sight - N/S

Altitude rested on ground -

Speod H/' 5

Diroction of flight After resting on ground it ascended to a height of
oe 2? agp non pedir epee ping er ienight up 20 ft, halted
and agein made whistling noise. Maneuvered around tree branches & tele
Sound whistling noise - like steam whistle : vires.
Size 1 ft thick - 2 feet wide

Color dull gray

Shapo ‘round

Odor dotectoa ~ 4/8

Apparent Ruetrabacn, metallic

Exhaust i¥esin. K/S

Woathor conditions n/s

EBffoct on clouds B/S

Sketches or photographs None

Manner of disappoarance into northeast

Romarks: (over)

VAG

Informents stated that on 11 Ang 4S between 1200 and 1215 hours, CST,
Jerome and Benno were playing in the back yerd and noticed an object
in descent approximately twelve feet from the ground which was descending
between the two of them, It settled to the ground gently - much as a
balloon, Upon hitting the ground the object spun once, made a sort of
whistling noise, described by the two boys as resembling a steam whistle,
and then shot straight up into the air approximtely 20 feet, halted
and again made a whistling noise. The object then shop upwerd to a height
of about 30 feet, and, in this ascent, maneuvered around tree branches
and tel: me wires. Upon reaching a height of approximately 30 feet
objec jot off in a northeasterly direction. The object approached
from the northwest.

The boys described the object as “approximately one foot thick, two feet
side and round." The object had no windows, wires, or any visible

appurtenances. It was a dull gray in color and when it hit the ground,
it made a slight clanking noise, mech as metal hitting against metal.

Philip and Mrs Leuer stated the boys were visibly frightened when they
ran into the house and were afraid to tell what they had seen. Upon
close questioning, the boys related the above story to them.

Mr. Lever advised that hetnen had notified Mr, E. R. Sheridan, Postmasteh
at Hemel, Minnesota (who subsequently notified the proper anthorities

AGENTS NOTES: Agent noted that the spot where the alleged "flying seucer"
had landed was approximately 2 feet in diameter and appeared as though
some heavy object had landed there or had been set down ~ as the

was dented gmt Bre ae rocks had been leveled. The spot was covered by
a weshtub.

i z, RB, rt P : he had
reason to doubt steep onsite toned Prank Reaictoace) ‘and
zo Sis reason had reported the matter to the Federal Bureau of Investigation,
t. Penl, Minn.

1.

3e
he
5e
6.
Te
8.
De
100
7,
12.
vB.
lh.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.

21.
22.

236

256
26.

S f.0 a Pe eG x
BY

CHECKLIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

Dite | 22 daly he Incidont # 163

Time hour before dark
Location Van Nuys, Calif
Name of observer t+ Henry Glover & wife
Ofd-Res) 4
Occupation of obsorvor Ordnance Reserve Officer
Address of observor 8531 Variel Ave., Canoga Park, Calif
Placo of observation Van Nuys, Calif.
Number of objocts 1
Distance of object from observor 2000xf% overhead

Timo in sight fix about en hour
Altitude great height

Speoa N/S

Direction of flight ee the sun from the East or Wxtaxk
Tactics traveled a the a arc of about 25° or more

Sound n/S

Sizo Of weather balloon at 2000 ft

Color bluish luminescence like fluorescent lamp which gradually
changed to orange color at dusk
Shapo round tending to spherical

Odor dotoctea 8/8

Apparent construction 4N/S

Exhaust trails 4/S

Woathor conditions CAVU ground temperature 70-75°
Effoct on clouds B/S 5

Sketches or photographs None

Manner of disappearance snapped off like a lemp when you throw switch
§

Romarks; (Over)

mn Dn >

gf dae

Object appeared round and probably spherical. At first looked.
similar to weather balloon at about 2000 ft but there was no
characteristic bobbing. The wind was blowing on the ground with
fair strength and gusty yet the object was se steady. In the
time it was under observation (about an hour) it traveled thru a
vertical are of about 25° or mre, After watching the object for

a while the observer concluded that whatever it wes the thing wes

at great height but not a star, It had a bluish luminescence like

a fluorescent lamp and as the sun set the color gradually changed to en
orange color at dusk and finally snapped off like a lamp when the
switch is thrown. The outline was clear and sharp and symetricel (no
fuzziness or blurring), the air clear with visibility unlimited.
Direction of travel from East directly toward the sun.

»

awry

nf pi. Ud 1 @re
CHECK=LIST = UNI FIED FLYING OBJECTS

le Date 29th June 5 Incidont # Koha

2. Time 11P.M.

3. Location Uniontown, Pa,
h. Namo of observor Mx Catherine McDonald
5, Occupation of lobsorver B/S wktewm widow
6, Address of observor 38 Kensington Circle, Uniontown
7. Placo of observation Uniontown, Pa, - Observer's front porch ,
8. Numbor of objocts three - one at a time
9. Distance of objoct from observer y/s
10. Timo in sight 3/S
11, Altitude 5000 ft
12. Speed Very fast
13. Direction of flight MB
14. Tactics spinning vertically on edge
15. Soumd none
16. Sizo ¥/S
17. Color luminous
18,  Shapo oval
19. Odor dotectoa None
20. Apparent construction ¥/S - transparent
21. Exhaust trails treil of light about 1 yard long

> Woathor conditions stormy and cloudy

W/S - flew act9ss ne
ee ‘ ’

2.  Skotehes or photographs vagne sketch —-

25. Manner of disappoarance lost sight of - sonia

26. Romarks:’ (over)

ny
Ly

23, Effoct on clouds

Witness saw a luminous, oval-shaped object flying at an altitude of

approx 5,000 ft which was traveling beneath the base of some wkmmmix clouds
from southwest to northeast across the sky. The weather was stormy and
cloudy and as a second object flew across the sky a flash of lightning
could be seen thru it. It seemed to be transparent. The objectse(3)
traveled very fest and seemed to just disappear within 10 seconds. The objects
appeared at approximately five minute intervals. There was no odor

or sound f@ from them. However, a trail of light about a yard long was
observed. The objects rolled vertically on their edges and appeared to be
spinning en end across the sky. Witnesses lost sight of the objects

as neighboring houses obstructed their view.

Witnesses: Mrs, Margaret Holler
Police Sergeant Shuh & tims his daughter

»y

CHECK-LIST = UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS zi eel

le Date 26 July 1948 Incidont # 165
2, Timo 21008 |
3. Location Chamblee, Ga.
h, Mame of observor fs Doyle L. Avery et al
5. Occupation of obsorvor Observer, Atlenta Navel Air Base
6. Address of observor Atlanta Naval Air Base, Chamblee, Ge.
7. Placo of observation Observation tower
8. Numbor of objocts 1 blue white light
9. Distance of object from obsorver y/s

10. Timo in sight N/S

ll, Altitude 4/S

12. Speed N/S— like shooting ste ,

13. Direction of flight SB turning § and geining altitude

lh. Tactics straight & level & gaining altitude

15. Sound Mone

16. Sizo 4/8 ale
17... Color  dlue-white light

18.  Shapo N/S = object not seen

19. Odor dotectoa 3/8
20, Apparent construction like shooting star us
21, Exhaust trails N/S = possibly the blue white light wes the exhaust

22,  Woathor conditions 2/10 cirrus at 25,000 ft; 1 to 4/10 of lower strato-
cirrus at 5,000 ft. Visibility 12 to 15 miles. Surf wind light & variabhe

23. Bffoct on clouds W/S 2-5 MPH
2h.  Skotches or photographs None :
25. Manner of disappearance y/s

26. Remarks: (over)
4 2 =e

4 aes Veal wreeliMae 2.

Me ate oa & Exo UY FUT VE yop

A

Vb0/

165e

Quxkaochee, Doyle L. Avery Observer, Atlanta Naval Air Base, Chamblee,

Ga,, while on duty at the observation tower on 26 July 48 about 2100

hours sighted a blue-white light traveling southeast from the northeast

It wes traveling very fast and maintained a uniform altitude (undetermined)
and speed, It looked like a shooting star except for the fact that it
maintained the same altitude. While under observation it then appeared

to gain altitude and then turned sharply to the south. The weather was
clear and still. There was no sound. Shortly after sighting the light
several residents of the area called and reported seeing the same t! .
No flights left or arrived at the station after 1910 hours on 26 July 48,

Witnesses of this who were interviewed made statements

as follows: On 26 July 4S they were seated on the lawn of the Georgia
School of Technology Housing Project at Chamblee, Ga, About 2045 hours
Mrs, John Gell sighted a strange light and called it to the attention of
her companions. The light appeared about the size of a football and

was traveling southeast on a steady course. It was green and faded into a
silver-colored tail, The light appeared egpmamird to lose altitude slowly
mach the same as a plane coming in for a landing, It appeared to fade
away in flight as if extinguished, No sound wa da.

Witnesses? Le & Mrs. Harold Shaw
. Robert Sebring
Mrs, Jeanne Hill
Mrs, Myrtle Renfroe
Mrs. John Gall

*

‘

le
26

Be

/ a cae EO
CHECK=LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS
Date 30 Aug 4 Incidont # 166

Time 20,000 hours or 8:00 P. M.
Location Los Angeles, Calif.

lk, Mame of observer  8/Sgt Leroy H. Estes
5. Occupation of obsorvor 8/Sgt
6. Address of obsorvor Mf 1301 W. Olympic Blvd., Los Angeles
7» Placo of Siservattod 1301 W. Olympic Blvd. Los Angeles, Calif.
8. Numbor of objocts 1
9- Distance of object from obsorvor n/s
10, Timo in sight N/S
ll, .Altitude estimated to be well over 20,000 ft.
12, Spood thought to be well over 700 MPH
13. Diroction of flight Weeeevelllint
1h, Tactics mone - flew level course
15. Sound No sound
16. Sizo Larger then B-29
17. Color silver
18. Shapo V2 rocket
19. Odor dotectoa 8/8
20. Apparent construction rocket - like
21. Exhaust trails blue exhemst trail
22. Woather conditions Choo
23. Effoct on clouds n/S
2h. Bicetohes or photographs None
256 Manner of disappearance n/S
26. Romarks: (over)

'

Ay

he

10,

ll.

lie
18.
19.
20.
2l.

22.

Ry Wil
CHECK=LIST = UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS
Date 6 May 1948 Incidont # 167

Time 0905 GCT

Locetion 19° 08' N = 164° 05' E between Kwajalein Island, Marshall
Islands and Hickam Field.,
Name of observer Capt Floyd Barnes

Occupation of obsorvor Pilot USAF

Address of observer Pacific Division, Milit Air Trans Service
Placo of observation Ahead & sbove his plane

Numbor of objects 1

Distance of object from obsorver 4 to 5 miles

Timo in sight split second

Altitude 10,000 ft

Speod n/§

Diroction of flight 3/8

Tactics exploded like a shall

Soumd n/S

Size ¥/ s
Color white
Shapo ball

Odor dotectod ¥/S

Apparent construction fix "fire"
Exhaust trails None

Woathor conditions 5/10 cloud coverage

Effoct on clouds y/S
Sketches or photographs mone
Manner of disappoarance exploded

Romarks:

A large white ball of fire was observed some four to five miles
directly ahead of and slightly above the aircraft, It was observed
for only a split second and was comparable to the explosion of a shell
There were no streamers or "tails" observed such as usually related

to a meteor or a distress signal. As the aircraft approached the
approximate position where the ball of fire was observed a single white
light was seen on the water surface. However, this disappeared within

after these lights were observed on the water surface when an aircraft
wes sighted flying a reciprocal course (240°) at about 1000 ft below

the observers's aircraft and slightly to the right of the course,

Capt Barnes made numerous attempts to contact this aircraft on Channel "B"
end "C", but acknowledgment of his transmission was never teceived,

CHECK=LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS
le Date 20 duly 19hs~ Incidont # 168
2, Time 1330 local
3. Location  Obrechstreet, Arnhem, The Hague
lk. Mame of observer A. D. Otter
5. Occupation of obsorvor Ghf.- Investigator of Court of Damege
6. Address of obsorvor Arnheim, The Hague
7e Placo of observation 52° 30" §, ye 30' EB
8. Numbor of objects +
9. Distance of object from observer 4/S
10. Timo in sight y/S
11, Altitude very high |
12. Speed . high speed - comparable to v-2
I. Ddrection or fiighe Ms
1h. Tactics 4/s
15. Sound Same as V-2
16. Size y/s
17. color 3/8
18.  Shapo Aircraft with 2 decks and no wings
19. Odor dotected ¥/S
20. Apparent construction 4/s
21. Exhaust trails x/s

22, Woather conditions Visibility unlimited - scattered clouds

23.  Effoct on clouds 4/S ‘
3 > @& aco

2h. Sketches or photographs None

eT Tava |

~ Ps F
256 Manner of disappearance ¥/: s . S tee

26. Romarks: Object appeared to be wingless aircraft with two

decks, It was traveling at very high altitude and wes seen four times
intermittently thru clowis. Visibility: unlimited,

10.

ll,

2.
1h.
15.
16.
17.
16.

19.

21.
22,

236

256
26.

Numbor of obioeks
Distanco of objoct from obsorvor Ws
Timo in sight 4/S

Altitude N/S

Speoa ¥/S

Diroction of flight ¥/S enit ay:

Tactics Arose from behind woods - seemed to unravel a silver
stance that floated earthward

Soua 3/8 i .

Sizo large

Color silver

Shapo sphere

Odor dotectod ¥/S

Apparent construction y/s

Exhaust trails  - silver substance (?)

Woathor conditions y/ s

Sketches or photographs None ‘ -
Manner of disappoaranco Disintegrated in mid-air

|
|
\
|
Effoct on clouds ¥/S ; : |
1
4
Romarks: (over)

Witness observed a large silver-colored sphere which seemed to

arive from behind his woods and contimed to float across his farm.
While in flight it seemed to unravel a silver substance which

floated earthwerd. While under observation it disintegrated in mid-air.

NOTE: Witness seemed very conscientious and sincere while relating this
incident. Subject arose while witness wes talking to a man from
this Gommand (MCIAXP) when an airplane chanced to fly overhead,

INCIDENT SUMMARY SHEET
(To be filled out and retained in files)

Date of Observation £m or about 5 May 1948 Incident # 175

Time of Observation ..-.+.-. «e+e.

Where was on Sighted rot. — aa ev ao ee ee

Observer's Position . Groun@e in village near ‘enint elie AS

(ise. ground, air, control tower, etc.)

Name and Address of Observer . Mews item .extragted from "Yeni Gahah".

Gecupstton: and/or Hobbics 4s) <\g Aveo bie s sce ps or ase

Attention Attracted to Object (s) By...
Number of Object(s) Sighted .g........

Cine: Of ‘Onjechla) sce ais 9 e's ee ea

Color of Object(s) . ghinimg- .-----

Shape (Sketch if Possible)... sees

Nature of Luminosity « . 6. + es eee oe

Estimated Distance of Object from Observer .
Speed of -Objeetle)! ccs bbe we a a eS

Time in Sight cesses ce ceceseseceees
TRCULCE geile = We, 6 eae eR he Se vee
Sound Made’ by Object(s) sos sc Se ce se ee wae
Direction of Flight of Object(s) . 2... eee eee

Apparent Construction (Of What Material or Substance)

Effect of Objects on Clouds and/or Exhaust Trail...

Weather Conditions Existing at the Time. .

Peculiaritics Noted . Mepleded. in the air be ame

Sib athe ewe oe Ee Se 78 «mS gas

Summary of Incident=, Shem ito, Seabees weeiaghipae. "ent. sabe Tatasbal, .
5 vey 19s: tn are tre anne ny ak a ag

objects Like meteors hare deem sighted: in varionn parts Conta
(Attach a Separate Sheet if Additional pee oF is the coyhtry.

Incident # 170 Cont'd

Some people suggest that these might be rockets, Information received
from m thorized circles reveals that such a thing passed over

and was eeen to explode in the dtr. Parte of it fell into a village
nearby and killed a sheep dog. The thing we found to be a rocket and the
debris will be inspected by exerts. Obers End Quote",

Observers say that the rocket which is claimed to have come from the

gs oo ay was flying at en altitude of 200 meters over Adapazari before
it fell.

According to rumors , it is possible that the rocket is connected with
the “flying disc" experiments being conducted by the Russians at the
station on Mt. Alagoz close to the astern frontiers,

Source: HA Ankara, Turkey, 10 May 1948, Serial S6-U8, Eyal F0

Comments Air Attache, Ankara, Turkey has been requested to investigate
this incident fully and encourage Turkish General Staff to do likewise,
Whether incident can be confirmd or not Air Attache has been directed
to determine sources for information contaimd in Yeni Sabeh article.

~sileGGROF- Incident # 170

INCIDENT SUMMARY SHEET
(To be filled out and retained in files)

Date of Observation ‘Sang 19S - +: Incident # 171
Time of Observation . gymget- -----

Where was Object(s) ree aoat- "5 al (2920 nites) “MW 6f” bse

Observer's Position . @pgywmd- + + + ee ee ee ee tw ee
(i.e. ground, air, control tower, etc.)

Name and Address of Observer . « Moscow, USSR: - - -

Occupation and/or Hobbies pasate iene. a

Attention Attracted to Object (s) By Same 4nte line of -skgixt -

Number of Objecke(a) Sighted: .$iccs: sual os di eos oe

SeeeniOn Cosect Ga) sia at loo 3k ae oa ae ie laa ae sw ate. fee

Color of Object(s) « @home WMghtly ---.-.- Ai Ree er SEE
Shape (Sketch if Possible) . Jongenarrow -
Nature of Luminosity 2... 1 2 see eee

Estimated Distance of Object from Observer .

Speed of Object(s) . higty but not- excessive

Timein:Sight < sc < e<.0 0 8: « © sie sw bs © a 6
Tactics 4 6 0 86 6 0 0 8 0 9 pe 8 ot 86 ee ewe ee wt
Sound Made by Object(s) « mpmm - ++ ese eee ee we

Direction of Flight of Object(s) . Southwesé=. Berthwest- Gaérection - - -
Apparent Construction (Of What Material or Substance) Apparently. metallic

Effect of Objects on Clouds and/or Exhaust Trail . 2.2.02 ese ee eee

Weather Conditions Existing at the Time . sumay - Oye a ee he Feri erm)

Peculiaritics Noted .winglesse.leng snd marrew-

Summary of Incident «See- attacked sheet -

(Attach a Separate Sheet if Additional Space is

Incident # 171 Cont'd

About Sunset on 3 Aug 1945, dout 25 kilometers (20miles) northwest of
American newspaper reporter saw an unidentified
high attitude. It was long and narrow and proceeded at
+ not excessive speed in a generally south-west- northeast
rection. It shom very brightly from reflected sunlight.
4 be seen md no was heagd, It looked like a rigid ¢
was so identified by a Russian acquaintance who saw it at
same time, However, the reporter, in gpite of the appearance of
object was of the opinion that it was not a rigid airship due
principally to its high speed. He had no theory to offer.

NA COMMENT: This object might have been anything. Its speed seems
insufficient for a guided missile, but it could have been
either a jet or a conventioml airplane as umsual light
conditions and fore-shortening frequently give aircraft a
freakish appearance, The possibility that it wea dirigible
should not be excluded. Reference "A" should not be excluded,

REFERENCE As The upper winds in Russia are not published but it we noted
that on the following morning there were high surface winds
with storm predictions.

