MAILED 3

COMM-FBI

Mrs. Levid. Dow
Gonsionn, New Hempehive 03045
Dear Mrs Dov Dow: _

Your letter of August 31st, with enclosures,
has been received and I appreciate the interest which prompted
you to write.

In response to your inquiry, this Bureau is
strictly an investigative agency of the Federal Government
and, as such, neither makes evaluations nor draws conclusions
as to the character or integrity of any organization, publication
or individual. Iam sorry I cannot be of assistance to you;
however, you may be sure your communication will be made a
matter of record.

Sincerely yours,
Ba!

John Edgar Hoover
Director

2

NY So “s
NOTE: Bufiles contain no record of Kaew ep iy O4 or Amalgimatéd.
Flying Saucer Clubs of America, Inc.

reg

U ONIGVSY~-0,93u

ED:jeg (3)

1IVO% (as
JAY
Joe wi) 92 |)

Ue 43g

99. HY 9s iI

é dig

®

TRUE COPY

August 31, 1966

J. E. Hoover, F.B.I. Director
Wash. D. C.

Dear Sir:

I ama member of "Nicap"' and am very much
interested in U. F.O-(Flying Saucers)

Several weeks ago a fellow employee received a
letter (business) from Arizona with a stamp on the back (see
enclosed)

Being interested in U. F.O's I asked for the stamp
& sent $3.00 for the 12 issues of AFSCA.

Having received & read my first issue I feel it isn't
just what it appears on the surface. I can't say just why, but with
my limited idea of how communists operate it strikes me it is backed
by them.

My reason for writing this is that I consider myself
a true American, I am told my ancestors go back to a Gr Gr Gr
Grandmother who was an Indian Squaw & I'm proud of it. If, by
writing for this AFSCA Report, my name could in anyway be aligned
with the communist party, I would like to know if there is any wayI ~~
can get things straightened out.

I may be all wrong about my interpretation of this
report but i'd like to be sure since I expect I will get the other issues

as they come up. Rec 98 : ye Y4 ’

I will be 63 yrs old in a few days. My husband passed
away 4-30-65 I have worked as Mgr of Reins Dept for the N. H. Ins
Co in Manchester N. H 44 years this month

a eed
Mrs. Levi J. Dow Very truly yours,
Goffstown (Mrs) Florence C. Dow 4 sep 8 198
New Hampshire 03045
, U

7 , a tT 31 \Qbe

(

Veay Suv:

Sam o Anumhe o% Nie: Ip ; oud can ROK Anuude
Wwiloaalag wm U. 4&9 (Ilia Saueue )
Dodd ure eee ow flow area o> STL (fuesinuaa)
[pao Ong awa aa (ase surcleeed |)

Sei ee ae
{owe yo toauas of AFSC,

sreh (isired % Mead ae var of bch Nt aut
uchat ye m the 0 a fr aceikron es oe
Ais We ute acted Wy

“Wy flLazm es ie 7] va thet A tnaidu ml
the Quwiican | cQ am My aumerdlas ee ach to &

Va Yau So Ri 3 A F we Uso WwW MW drau & A
im pueed fT. oY ay wring 4h” wtlus AFSOA Reged
AVY Nb end iy ame (ven he aces with Gk.

sec segiok iy ON Ot nek Sha Neen f aw te amr
Ay rn oy be al ww Sent hy ee. Sk Se 04 Was Fi
ind dd Miko le aun auiee & eypust oh voll ok Ns lle

&
Ay) =>
Kairie Wye cats thes I]
al Sie o te aes tw thon.H clue & wi Ay

a -
Ses / > thus Awol, ‘S

ae cE; a \
Cw) 6+ Perorer, GW or S

AFSCA's 62-83 394-449

(Amalgamated Flying Saucer Clubs of America )
3rd National

FLYING SAUCER
“c= CONVENTION om

* EXHIBITS
* BOOKS At The Beautiful, New $2. 00 cs aa

*  DLIPERATURE CENTENNIAL COLISEUM (4590 S. Virginia St.)

Reno; Nevada - July &,9,19, 1966,

Program: 10 A.M. to 11P.M.

SPEAKERS ARE: Wayne S. Aho, Carl A. Anderson, Orfeo Angelucci, Michael ''X'' Barton,
Wesley Bateman, Marianne Francis, Dr. Daniel W. Fry, Calvin C. Girvin, Gabriel Green,

Dr. George King, Hanno Mayberry, Howard Menger, Laura Mundo, Mel Noel, Sidney Padrick, |
Chief Standing Horse, Dr. Frank E, Stranges, Mollie Thompson, Hope Troxell, George W.
Van Tassel, Hal Wilcox.

LIL LT

Official Journal of the

Amalgamated Flying Saucer Clubs of America, Inc.

HEAR: Amazing experiences with spacecraft from other planets and their occupants by the
greatest assembly of contactee-speakers since our Los Angeles convention in 1959
at the Statler-Hilton.

SEE: Startling new photographic evidence ——the biggest collection of Flying Saucer photos
on display in the history of the saucer movement. Actual color movies and new still
photos of Flying Saucers.

MEET: IN PERSON, PEOPLE WHO HAVE HAD ACTUAL CONTACTS WITH SPACESHIPS |
AND THEIR CREWS FROM OTHER WORLDS.

LEARN: About this important subject which is so vital to the welfare and survival of humanity {

in cur times. \
ATTEND: AFSCA's 3rd National Convention. You'll be glad you did! Fill out the Advance

Registration form below. Do it Now!

For Motel & Hotel room information, write to: The Greater Reno Chamber of Commerce
P.O. Box 2109; Reno, Nevada

AFSCA 3rd NATIONAL CONVENTION ADVANCE REGISTRATION FORM

To: AFSCA Headquarters; 2004 N. Hoover St., Los Angeles, Calif. 90027. Phone: 662-4404.

Yes, count me in! I don't want to miss joining with you at this important convention
and helping to support this vital movement. Here is my $ . Please send me
Advance Reservation tickets ($5.00 for the 3 days, or $2.00 per day). IMPORTANT: [Tam
also enclosing a stamped, self-addressed envelope for the return of my tickets. ADVANCE
REGISTRATIONS must be received at AFSCA Headquarters no later than JUNE 30th!!!

SPECIAL AFSCA THIRD NATIONAL FLYING SAUCER CONVENTION ISSUE

Name Street

City State Zip Code ISSUENO. 24 JULY , 1966 50c

PrP rPZOnsAr2amMZe

SPECIAL AFSCA

BRIGHT WORLD IN HANDS OF SAUCER MOVEMENT

(Editor's Note: This special message was
received from Master Kalen-Li Retan (head of the
planet Korendor, about 400 light years distant) on
May 4, 1966 via special directional short-wave radio
by Bob Renaud, the young electronic-technician whose
remarkable story we priptsd in issues #18, 19;,20)21,
ani 22, and which will be continued in our next issue.

Since Bob's initial radio contact in 1961, he has
talked with the crew of a spacecraft as he watched
them on his special TV screen in his home — and
eventually met his contacts in-person; visited their
undersea and underground bases on our planet; was
taken aboard many of their spaceships; and was
actually allowed to pilot two of their small scout
craft — one on a short solo flight.)

"Kalo (Hello), friends. We will get directly to
the point of our message to you. Frankly, we are
appalled at the state of Earth at present. Despite our
constant warnings and even our actual intervention in
some instances, the condition upon your planet grows

-steadily worse.

One subject on everyone's lips these days is
Vietnam. From a little civil war, it has grown
steadily and inexorably into a full scale conflict
between the world's three major powers: the United
States, the Soviet Union, and Communist China.

Many influential people have used the approach
of patriotism and love of God and Country to twist
decent human feelings into dangerous channels of
thought and action. With their charges of treason and
sympathy with the enemy, they have aroused a good
portion of the populace to a state of fear, distrust,
and hatred of those who seek peace and love. Unfor-
tunately, because some unconventional individuals
have been associated with the peace movement, that
entire operation has been seriously hindered.

Your government is a military puppet, a mere
parrot of the monstrosity that is the Military-Indus-
trial complex. Your senators, except for a few, are
robots, speaking what they are told to say.

Your President is, unfortunately, a pawn of
their needs and demands. We have contacted him
several times concerning the state of affairs, and he
has said that he could do nothing to change them, for
if he were to speak out against the Asian conflict, he
would be removed. This is what happened to the late
Mr. Kennedy who, in his great humanitarianism, was
reluctant to sacrifice his ideals and his visions for
the sake of the Military Industrial octopus. He paid
the supreme penalty for his efforts in behalf of

CONVENTION

MESSAGE

humanity.

Make no mistake. Your government is not in the
White House or the Congress. IT IS IN THE PENTA-
GON, AND IN THE HEADQUARTERS OF THE VAST
"DEFENSE'"-ORIENTED INDUSTRIES. It is THEY,
not the President or the Congressmen, who run the
United States. The facade government is merely to
allay undue alarm or suspicion of the people.

Examine another aspect of the Asian war, the
ECONOMIC side. Do you recall that, in the stock
reports just recently, the Dow-Jones average
dropped sharply BECAUSE OF A RUMOR THAT
NORTH VIETNAM HAD MADE A PEACE BID? Does
the staggering implication of this news evade you?
Stock prices suffering a heavy loss because of a
rumor that peace might come to pass!

This thought is most distressing. Your economy
relies so heavily upon war and destruction, that if it
were to stop, THE UNITED STATES ECONOMY
WOULD SUFFER A MASSIVE DEPRESSION! Your
money system would collapse like a house of cards.
Millions would be unemployed, sick, hungry and
homeless, Tremendous industrial complexes would
close their doors.

The utterly appalling fact is this: WARIS
PROFITABLE. Highly so! Every major conflict has
been accompanied by a strong peak in your monetary
prosperity. Peace has usually been economically
painful!

After World War Il, the nation coasted for a while
upon the fat put on during the boom of the war years.
In 1929, the bottom fell out. After the Korean War,
in the 1950's came another recession. What comes
after Vietnam? No one knows, and no one wants to
find out. The war in Vietnam is bringing an unheard-
of degree of affluence in the United States. Why kill
a good thing by ending the war? The philosopy, in
essence, is this: It is economically expedient to send
military forces to Vietnam and elsewhere in Asia in
order to wage war, because in doing so, the United
States' economy is bolstered and maintained at a high
level of prosperity; human life is secondary to the
preservation of economic well-being!

It is thus evident that, unless a drastic change is
made in the structure of your economy, war will
never end because the Military-Industrial complex
WON'T LET IT!

Many of you fear Communism. Where did that
fear come from, I ask you? From within yourself?
NO! It was brainwashed into you by the Military-
Industrial complex. Who controls all your news
media? The government and the advertisers. Who,
then, is in a position to dictate what shall be printed?

FLYING SAUCERS INTERNATIONAL

ISSUE NO. 24

Official Journal of the

JULY , 1966

Amalgamated Flying Saucer Clubs of America, Inc.
International Headquarters: 2004 N. Hoover St., Los Angeles,, Calif. 90027,U.S.A.

Dedicated to

GABRIEL GREEN, Editor
HELEN GREEN, Asst. Ed.
FLYING SAUCERS INTERNATIONAL (6 issues-$3.00.
Membership-$1.00) is published quarterly. Copyright
© 1965 by Amalgamated Flying Saucer Clubs of
America. All rights reserved. The information
presented in ''Flying Saucers International" does not
necessarily represent the views of AFSCA. The num-
ber after your name on the address label indicates the
issue with which your subscription expires. Subscrip-
tion renewals will start where the previous one ended,
and will be acknowledged only by the new number after
your name on future issues. A ''Time to Renew'"'

The Physical, Spiritual, and Economic Emancipation of Man

A Non-profit Organization

notice will be enclosed in the last issue for which you
have paid. New subscriptions will start with the last
issue published, unless a specific starting issue num-
ber is requested. When writing to AFSCA for a reply,
enclose a stamped self-addressed envelope. Not
responsible for magazines lost in the mail due to sub-
scribers' failure to inform us of their current address-
es. Prices subject to change. Payment must accompa-
ny order. Send cash, check or money order to: AFSCA;
2004 North Hoover St.; Los Angeles, California 90027.
Phone: 662-4404. 2

local Post Office and then let us know.

FLYING SAUCER

NEW BOOKS NOW AVAILABLE FROM AFSCA:
(Price includes 15¢ mailing charge. California
residents also add 47 sales tax.)

1. COUNCIL OF SEVEN LIGHTS by George Van
Tassel, now reprinted — $3.65.

2. THE ADVENT OF THE COSMIC VIEWPOINT by
Bryant Reeve — $6.15.

3. FLYING SAUCERS THROUGH THE AGES by Paul
Thomas — $4.15.

4. OTHER TONGUES, OTHER FLESH by George
Hunt Williamson, now reprinted — $6.10.

5. SECRET OF THE ANDES by Brother Philip - $4,
6. FLYING SAUCERS AND THE THREE MEN by
Albert K. Bender — $4.15.

7. FLYING SAUCERS -— SERIOUS BUSINESS by
Frank Edwards — $6.10.

8. INCIDENT AT EXETER by John G. Fuller -$6. 10.

9. THE HOLLOW EARTH by Dr. Raymond Bernard,
now available again in soft cover for $3.15.

PAST CONVENTIONS & SAUCER ACTIVITIES:
FEBRUARY 5,6, 1966: Dr. Frank E, Stranges’ 4th
Annual UFO Space and Science Convention was held at
the Blarney Castle Inn Annex in Los Angeles.

JUNE 4,5,6, 1966: Dr. Daniel W. Fry's Man in
Space Symposium took place at Dunsmuir, near Mt.
Shasta in Northern California.

JUNE 25, 26,27, 1966: Buck Nelson's 10th Annual
Spacecraft Convention was held at Buck's Mountain
View Ranch; Route 1, Box 236; Mountain View, Mo.

BACK ISSUES of UFO INTERNATIONAL are now
selling 11 issues for $3.00, while they last (issue
#11 is now out of print). There is much timeless and
valuable information available in these magazines.

OUT OF PRINT: 1. FLYING SAUCERS: TOP
SECRET by Major Donald E. Keyhoe is now out of
print, although it is listed in our new brochure.
(Some saucer books have occassionally gone out of
print without notice.)

2. BACK ISSUES #6 and 11 are now out of print. We
still have only a few copies left of #9 which we have
priced at $1.00 each in an effort to preserve them for
serious researchers and collectors. Please do not
order these items, or any other materials which we
do not advertise.

PRICE CHANGE: The price has gone up on two
of the better known books in the saucer field, which
we must now order from England: 1. THE SKY
PEOPLE by Brinsley le Poer Trench, was $4.65.

It is now $5.10, postpaid. 2. ROAD IN THE SKY by
George Hunt Williamson, was $4.15. It is now $5.10,
postpaid. California residents please add 47 tax.

"UFOI" ISSUE #23 CORRECTIONS: Page 4, line
3: the date should be April 24, 1964, instead of
1965. On page 4, line 1 of the 7th paragraph, insert
"later, via telepathy" after ''They told him ---.!"'

SEATTLE, WASHINGTON area residents please
note: AFSCA Unit #25 meets every 4th Friday at the
Seattle Public Library, Room 325 at 7:30 P.M.,
under the capable direction of Mr. Leverett G.
Tallman. The meeting is free, and all who are
interested in the Flying Saucer subject are invited to
come to listen and to participate in the discussion.

ZIP CODES ARE IMPORTANT: If the address
label on this magazine does not have your zip code
number on it, please notify us as to what your num-
ber is. If you don't know your number, call your
Thanks!

AFSCA BROCHURES AND SAUCER-PHOTO
POST CARDS, sent to friends and acquaintances, are
a good way to help spread the word about Flying

NEWS IN __ BRIEF

Saucers. Brochures are l¢ each (this just about pays
the postage to mail them to you). Saucer post cards
are 50 for $1.00.

WHEN WRITING AFSCA, if you wish a personal
reply to a specific inquiry, please enclose a stamped,
self-addressed envelope. No replies can otherwise
be sent. General information may be obtained via
our brochures and magazines. We are sorry that we
cannot have a lengthy correspondence with all the
hundreds of persons who would like us to do so, but
unfortunately we have neither the time nor the staff
for it — and our mail has been greatly increased in
the last few months.

SAUCER NEWS CLIPPINGS: Your response has
been wonderful! We've received so many clippings
from you helpful people that we simply hadn't enough
space to print all your individual names and cities.
So we say a big and sincere THANKS to all of you.

, And please)jdo keep 'em coming! (One reminder:
please DON'T write on or near the clippings.)

WEDDING BELLS rang on Saturday, June 4, 1966
for contactee Elary J. Willsie and Sophia Martinez
Olivares of Mexico City. The ceremony took place
at Los Angeles, California. Among those present
were Sophia's parents and her younger sister, all of
Mexico City; Mrs. Maud Willsie, mother of the
groom; and your editor, who was also official photog-
rapher for the occasion. Mr. and Mrs. Willsie will
live in Los Angeles. Congratulations and best wishes,
Elary and Sophia!

MEL NOEL, former Air Force Lieutenant and
fighter pilot, is fast becoming very well known for his
lectures on his amazing experiences with Flying
Saucers while on active duty in the service. He has
been speaking to capacity crowds wherever he goes.
On Thursday, June 23, 1966, the personable Mr.
Noel spoke to a standing-room only crowd at the
Aeronautical Sciences Building on Beverly Blvd. in
West Los Angeles. We hear that he is booked to
speak at 57 colleges across the nation! Recently he
appeared on the Louis Lomax TV Show, and has been
heard on many radio shows. He leaves shortly for
Mexico City, where he has been invited by an official
government group to speak. He has been promised
some interesting experiences by a local contactee
there, and we look forward to hearing his report on

his return! Good work, Mel, and good luck!

SID PADRICK; contactee from Watsonville,
Calif., who spent two hours aboard a space craft,
was recently in Los Angeles when he was guest
speaker at the regular monthly meeting of the Ingle-
wood Unit of Understanding on Saturday, June 25,
1966. Meetings are held on the 4th Saturday of every
month at the Inglewood Business and Professional
Woman's Club; 820 Java St., Inglewood, at 8:00 P.M.
Donation is $1.00. Information: Mrs. Roberta T.
Forrester, Program Chairman; P.O. Box 146;

Inglewood, Calif. 90306. Phone: 677-5214. Also,
Mr. and Mrs. Lee Yates. Phone: 293-4743.

NEW AFSCA UNITS:
45. AFSCA Unit #45; Everett, Washington;

Ray and Jean Sebring, Co-Directors;

1032 S.W. 126th St.; Seattle, Wash. 98146.
46. AFSCA Unit #46; Ben Blazs, Director;

3057 Electric; Lincoln Park, Mich. 48146.

Several other new AFSCA Units have been formed
and will be listed in the next issue (#25). Persons
interested in forming AFSCA Units in their cities
should contact AFSCA Headquarters for information.

15

FLYING SAUCER

COMING 1966 FLYING SAUCER CONVENTIONS

JULY 8,9,10: AFSCA's 3rd National Convention,
Centennial Coliseum, Reno, Nev. (See details on back)
JULY 15,16,17: WAYNE AHO sponsors the

Northwest's 5th Annual Interplanetary Age Conven-
tion. Lectures, exhibits and New Age topics. Ad-
vance registrations — $1.00 per day for adults, 50¢
for students. Write to: Mrs. Lorena Vogt; 815 N.E.
110th; Seattle, Wash. Phone: Emerson 3-0956.

AUGUST 6 thru 14th: DR. NEVA DELL
HUNTER'S 12th Annual Quimby Conference of Trans-
lation. Lectures and discussions on New Age Topics,
including the stars, science and metaphysics. In
lovely scenic country at a beautiful, modern motor-
hotel. $2.50 per day, attendance. Information from:
Quimby Center; P.O, Box 453; Alamogordo, N. M.

AUGUST 19, 20,21: SPACE RESEARCH, Inc.'s
Second Annual Convention, at the North Branch
YMCA in Spokane, Washington. Scenic location near
the Spokane River. Indoor and outdoor convention
activities. For information, write to: Space
Research Inc., No. 6815 Julia, Spokane, Wash.

OCTOBER 22,23: GEORGE VAN TASSEL'S 13th
Annual Spacecraft Convention at Giant Rock, Calif. in
the desert 17 miles north of Yucca Valley. Bring
your own camping equipment and enjoy the outing.

OCTOBER 29,30: 10th ANNUAL NORTHERN
CALIFORNIA SPACECRAFT CONVENTION, Clare-
mont Hotel, Berkeley, Calif. Info: Angela Kilsby;
1265 Montgomery Blvd.; San Francisco, Calif.94127.

OUR NEW NAME: Our magazine, formerly
called ''UFO International", has now become ''Flying
Saucers International", which we feel to be a more
appropriate title, since Flying Saucers are no longer
Unidentified Flying Objects as far as we are concern-
ed. Flying Saucers have become a serious issue
with thinking people all over the world. We believe
that most of the objects which have been sighted have
been of extraterrestrial origin, controlled by intelli-
gent beings who, in form, are very much like us.
Therefore, we hope you will understand our reasons
for changing titles, and that you will continue to
enjoy reading our publication under its new banner.

DR. RAYMOND BERNARD, founder of the
Biosophical Society of Santa Caterina, Brazil, passed
away on Sept. 10, 1965. He was the author of ''The
Hollow Earth" and several other books concerned
with the hollow earth theory.

MARIA ELLIOTT, contactee, psychic and
founder of Maria Creative Womanhood Foundation,
was a recent guest on the Bob Grant Radio Show, and
the Pamela Mason TV Show. Glamorous Maria now
has her own program every Tuesday afternoon at
2:30 p.m. on KTYM radio. She may be seen in
person every Wed. evening at Holland House Restau-
rant, 8:00 p.m. in the downstairs meeting room.

An interesting program may be heard on New Age
Topics, and free readings are given. For more
information about Maria's appearances, classes,
etc., phone 657-1631, or write: Dr. Maria Elliott;
1543 Sunset Plaza Drive; Los Angeles, Calif. 90069.

DR. GEORGE KING, founder of the Aetherius
Society, was host at the official opening of the
Society's new headquarters at 6202 Afton Place; Los
Angeles, Calif. 90028; on March 5, 1966. After the
program Dr. King personally escorted us around the
attractive quarters. He also reported that a high
Space Being in physical form had visited there
recently for an hour and fifteen minutes and, after

14

NEWS IN BRIEF

walking around the premises, left his blessing on the
Aetherius Society and its work. For further inform-
ation call 465-9652, or write to the above address.

DELLA LARSON, who for over a decade was the
guiding light and main instigator of Flying Saucer
meetings and activities in the San Francisco Bay
Area, passed away on October 25, 1965. She was
70 years old. She will be remembered for her
energetic and enthusiastic dedication to the goals of
the Flying Saucer cause, as well as for the highly
successful annual Northern California Space Craft
Conventions which she organized for nine years.
(Della, we salute you!)

MAX MILLER, former publisher of the now-
defunct ''Saucers'' magazine, and author of 'Flying
Saucers: Fact or Fiction"! (now out of print), has a
new role. He is now editor-publisher of 'Real'' mag-
azine which may be found on the newstands for 50¢.
The August '66 issue devotes about half of its space to
the Flying Saucer subject and will be well worth your i
investigation. 7

WiLBUR MILLER, one of the early researchers
in the Flying Saucer Movement, passed away on
March 5, 1966. He was known for his fine channel
contacts with several Space Beings, including Monaka
of Mars. He also was the co-author — with his wife,
Evelyn — of the book 'We of the New Dimension."
Although he was a native of Missouri he had, in
recent years, been a resident of Los Angeles and of
Morongo Valley, Calif. (Good journey, Will!)

HOPE TROXELL, founder of the School of
Thought, now situated in Independence, Calif. (P.O.
Box 458), reported recently that the neighboring
towns of Bishop and Lone Pine had partial blackouts
during an evening channel (teltpathic) session she was
having with the Space Brothers. The lights in Inde-
pendence went out completely for several minutes by
a gradual fade-out, and then came on again in the
same manner. During this time, the Space Being
speaking through Hope said to those present: ''Be not
afraid. We are guardians of the race. Protection
will be given to those in the area."'

HAL WILCOX made a fine guest appearance on
the Joe Pyne TV Show, April 30, 1966. Hal passed
the lie-detector test with flying colors and conducted
himself with dignity and fortitude, which isn't always
easy on the Joe Pyne Show. During the test, Hal
stated that he had taken a saucer ride to visit the
second planet from the star, Alpha Centauri. {

M.I.N.D. stands for Mental Investigations of
New Dimensions, an organization recently formed by
Wesley and JoNell Bateman. Their activities include
meetings, courses and public appearances. They
have demonstrated on several occassions for groups
of up to 20 people, their ability to telepathically
direct the movements of visable spacecraft overhead.

Write: M.IL.N.D.; 4916 Franklin Ave.; Hollywood,
California 90027. Phone: 661-1731.
HELEN & GABRIEL GREEN contributed their

bit to the education of nearly 300,000 young people to

the saucer subject at the Teen-Age Fair, April 1 thru ¢

10 at the Hollywood Palladium, where AFSCA hada
booth to exhibit saucer photos, show slides, and to
disseminate information. We handed out over 13,000
brochures and saucer photo post cards, and talked
ourselves hoarse answering questions for 12 hours
each day. Gabriel also made over a dozen radio and
TV appearances and interviews during the Fair.

We also had another booth at the National
Aviation and Aerospace Exhibition at the Pan Pacific
Auditorium, May 17 thru 22. Yes, we've been busy!

The Military-Industrial complex, by opinion-control
through the use of psycho-politics (brainwashing by
controlled news management).

Consider this: In order to survive, a commer-
cial medium, such as a newspaper or magazine,
requires a vast amount of advertising revenue. The
mere subscription fees will not cover the costs.
Thus, they depend for their continued existence upon
money paid by advertisers. Suppose, then, that the
editor of a certain newspaper decides that he is
opposed to the Vietnam policy, and says so in his
paper. The advertisers simply say to the editor,
"Fither you toe the mark and print what we want, or
we'll withdraw our advertising."

Such pressures are a fact of life. The newsmen
are torn between their higher devotion to Truth, and
also to the lower level of their physical needs.
Rather than jeopardize their security and their
futures they, of course, submit meekly to power.
Their actions are fully understandable, and we do not
hold them responsible.

We throw the blame directly on the Military-
Industrial complex which, by its underhanded dealing,
threats of force, and economic pressure and retali-
ation, has crushed the spirit of American journalism
and turned it from a dynamic motivating force in
American life into a weak-willed, subservient
mouthpiece for the power-masters. We blame them
for the death of journalistic freedom and individuality!

One more comment on this topic: May I say that
a better economic system is already known to the
leaders of the Flying Saucer Movement. It is the
system known as Universal Economics. As we have
said over and over before, it is the non-money
economic system which MUST be applied on your
planet before you can start to resolve most of your
major problems and thus begin to establish a highly-
advanced, non-destructive state of existance on
Earth, such as we of more advanced planets have
enjoyed for solong. INVESTIGATE THIS SYSTEM
to evaluate it for its merit — then ACT to apply it!
YOUR VERY SURVIVAL AS A CIVILIZATION MAY
DEPEND UPON IT!

Perhaps this is an opportune time to clarify a
few questions which have been asked about us.

Do we of Korendor work with the local planets
in our operations? Yes, we do cooperate with them
a great deal. However, our work on Earth is
relatively independent of the local planets. We have
many times overstepped what is considered to be the
limit of interference upheld by Venus, Mars, and
other planets. This has caused a good deal of debate
between them and us. Each time we have pointed out

that we of Korendor are basically pragmatic in nature.

Although we do respect the laws of self-destiny, we
feel also that where stepping in is required to prevent
disaster, it is our right and our duty to do so.

We have interfered in such places as the United
States, China, Russia, and on a large scale in
Vietnam. This has caused no end of consternation in
the local Tribunal of Planets. We are sympathetic to
their viewpoint, but we do feel that their policy is
limited in its capacity to achieve the desired goals.

It is our opinion that one cannot stand on the sidelines
and achieve any noticeable results.

As I have said before, we have infiltrated your
planet. We are directly involved in Earth's life.

You might say that you have been invaded — a strong
way of phrasing it, to be sure, but nonetheless
factual, since we walk and work amongst you daily!

We have been asked about our physical appear-
ance. We are humanoid, indistinguishable from
yourselves, except that in our natural form we aver-
age three to four feet in height. Every other dimen-
sion is proportionately scaled, so that photographs of
us would not reveal our origin in any way.

We are able to increase our height while on
Earth through a technical process related to telepor-
tation. It is concerned with recording the atomic and
molecular structures of our bodies, and then repro-
ducing them identically on a larger scale. Differ-
ences in our internal structure are adjusted by the
computer which controls the reproducer.

Our most common skin color is a little darker
than yours, although we have skin colors which vary
as yours do all over the Earth. Usually, however,
we would look ''tan'' to you. We are NOT green, blue,
or heliotrope, as has been suggested! _

Concerning our language, we generally use one
of two tongues and we are fairly familiar with a third.
On Korendor itself we speak the native language,
Korendian. It is similar in many ways to your own
languages since it, like yours, was originally derived
from Galingua, one of the two universal tongues.

The other is Solex Mal, which is more familiar to
you, since it is used by your local Solar System
planets. It is seldom heard now in our sector of
space, as Galingua has replaced it almost completely.

Unlike your own, however, the Korendian-
Galinguan speech is very rhythmic, and has few
sibilant sounds, such as "'s'' or ''z''. Some of the
sharper sounds like ''c"' and "'k"' are minimized.
a beautiful language which is very musical and
pleasant to hear.

Perhaps you would be surprised to learn that
ancient Latin was liberally taken from Galingua.
There are many similarities in the two languages.
Even modern English has roots on other worlds!

In concluding my message to you, may I say —
people of Earth: open up your minds and your hearts
to the world around you. There is so much to be
learned, so much to be discovered. Don't waste
precious hours and days in bigotry and ignorance,
and in senseless fighting and killing. To do so is
truly a crime against nature and humanity.

At this stage where you have the very stars
almost in your grasp, how irrational and barbaric it
is to spend futile hours warring with your brothers.
As an old saying on your world puts it: ''As you make
your bed, so shall you lie in it.'' The decision does
not seem difficult. Here are the alternatives: A
world living in harmony, justice, security and abun-
dance for all, or a world continuing to reap the
bloody harvests that grow from the seeds of hatred
and mistrust. If left to their own devices, the
majority of mankind will forge onward to a destiny of
destruction and annihilation, oblivious to the danger
in their actions. They are short-sighted; they care
little for the future.

It is you New Age people, dedicated to the wel-
fare of all mankind, and having the vision and under-
standing of the ways to build the better world of
tomorrow, who must lead the way. You have the
future in YOUR hands, if you will but shoulder your
responsibilities. The Flying Saucer Movement, as
you call it, belongs to you. Support it in every way
possible. Help it to grow until it is influential
thoughout your world. Go out into the world and
guide the misguided, find the lost, and recover the
strays. We are behind you all the way. As we have
said many times before, we will take two steps for
every one that you take to help yourselves.

The time has come for nations to ''bury the
hatchet", to clasp hands, and plunge into the future
together — in co-operation toward mutual goals.

Look to the heavens and realize that your destiny
is not in bleak atomic desolation, but in the magnifi-
cent greatness that you can achieve if you will but
work for it. Choose the right path and you will soon
qualify to join with us in our journeys amongst the
stars.

Va i Luce (Go in Light)."

It is

Kalen-LiRetan 3

[skipped page][skipped page]NEW SAUCER PHOTOS: These remarkable photos of Flying Saucers were taken by Dr. Daniel W. Fry,
President of Understanding, Inc., of P.O. Box 76, Merlin, Oregon 97532. Your editor enlarged them
from the original 16mm color movie film. Spots on the photos are due to the extreme enlargement of
scratches and dust spots on the film. Of special interest is the fact that the same type of craft was

photographed near Merlin, Oregon in a wooded section, and again near Joshua Tree, Calif. on the desert.

H

.| “saucers”

vy) THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Ménday, December 13, 1965

New ‘Fireball’ Raises
An Old Question: Do
Flying Saucers Exist?

*
Californian, Who “Talks’ to Men
From the Stars, Says ‘Yes’;
Scientists Assail Air Force

By ELLIOT CARLSON
Staff Reporter of THE WALL STREET JouURNAL
They’se back. The latest was sighted a few

|| nights ago by residents and pilots in the north-

ern tier of states and Canada. They described
it as an orange fireball. "The Air Force'at first
called it an unidentified flying object, but now
thinks it was a meteor. Some other people
called it a flying saucer. ;

Several people say they saw the fireball] land

‘| Thursday night. An 11-year-old boy in Lorain,

Ohio, says he watched it drop into the woods
near his home. A woman in Elyria, Ohio, 10
miles away, claims she saw it plunge into a
vacant lot across the street from her home.
Others say they saw it streak into Lake Michi-
gan. Scientists and police combed a 75-acre
area near Pittsburgh after a woman there saw
the object crash to earth ‘‘smoldering.’’.

, Despite these witnesses and search efforts,
however, the thing has yet to be found. In this
regard, it is like all other unidentified flying
objects, or UFOs, which are mysterious be-

j.cause they are seen but never found.

‘Whatever it turns out to be—meteor, satel-
Htepart, hoax, weather oddity or man from
Mars-it appeared ina banner year Yor: such
objects, which almost disappeared from public
consciousness following & rash of. reports’ of
flying saucers in the mid-1950s: ‘‘We’ve had

‘| mére reports this year-than in’any year since
:| 1957, when we had more than a thousand,” says

a spokesman -for Project Blue Book, the Air

‘| Force program set up in 1948 to evaluate re-

ports of the phenomena.
Visitors From Outer Space
Nobody knows what the objects are or where

|| they come from, but there is no-lack of theories

—or of controversy. The Amalgamated Flying
Saucer Clubs of America, Inc., is sure the
come from outer space. How do
they know? The’ “‘space people’ have told
them.

Not only that, says Gabriel Green, who
heads the California group, ‘‘space people give
contactees information about life on other
Planets and solutions to insurmountable prob-
}lems on our planet.”” One suggestion allegedly
made to Mr. Green in 1960 by a visit from Al-
pha Centauri, ‘a nearby star: Run for Presi-
dent as a write-in candidate. (He campaigned

lefly, then decided not to run.)

The National Investigations Committee on
Aerial Phenomena (NICAP), a private re-
search organization in Washington, doesn’t
hold with that theory. ‘We reject reports of
noble beings landing on earth to solve all our
problems,” says a spokesman. So men from
Mars are a lot of bunk? Not necessarily, says
the committee. It believes q Congressional in-
vestigation would prove that UFOs “are real
physical objects . . . under the control of living
beings.”” As an afterthought, the ‘spokesman
says: ‘‘There are a tremendous umber of ego-
maniacs who have been able to appoint them-
selves experts in this field because it’s so con-
fused.”’

One man who’s not confused at all is Charles
.A. Maney, professor emeritus of physics. and
mathematics at Defiance, College in Ohio. Says

The spokesman quickly adds: ‘“‘We have nei-
ther received nor discovered any evidence that
proves the existence of intraspace mobility or
extraterrestrial life and we continue to extend
an open invitation to anyone who feels he pos-
sesses any evidence of such vehicles operating
in our atmosphere.” And he states: ‘‘No UFO
report evaluated by the Air Force has ever
given ary indication of a threat to our national
security.”

The Air. Force’s approach disturbs some
people, however. ‘‘The Air Force should admit.
there are natural phenomena taking place un-
der our noses of which we know nothing,’’ says
I. M. Levitt, director of Fels Planetarium at the
Franklin Institute in Philadelphia. He adds:
“The Air Force is trying to explain something
that isn’t susceptible to explanation.”

Robert Risser, director of the Oklahoma Sci-
ence and Art Foundation planetarium at Okla-
homa City, believes ‘‘the Air Force must have
had its star-finder upside down during Aug-
ust,’? when several reparts of flying saucers
were ascribed by the Air Force to sightings of
stars. ‘The constellations of Taurus and Orion
weren’t visible at the time the Air Force said
the sightings were made. I think they made an
error.””

The whole problem, says J. Allen Hyntek,
chairman of the department of astronomy at
Northwestern University and a consultant to
the Air Force, is that the matter should be
studied more thoroughly. .

“Pressures to conformity in academic cir-
cles and fear of ridicule have slowed the
study,’’ according to Robert Hall, a sociology
professor at the University of Illinois in Chi-
cago.

“The ypossibility of life on Mars is an un-
popular thing to consider these days,” says
Frank B. Salisbury, a professor of plant phy-
siology at Colorado State University. At the
risk of being unpopular, Mr. Salisbury told the
fifth annual Space Conference. this year ‘that
“there may be some natural explanation of
these things, but a tentative possibility to .be
considered is ‘that UFOs are spaceships from

ars.”

Fueling the flying-saucer controversy has
been the large number of reports from what
many people ider reliable wit: —pilots
with technical backgrounds. Since 1947, more
than 100 private, military and commercial pilots
have reported spotting strange objects in the
sky, according to one study.

Pinning down such reports is difficult, how-
ever. ‘‘Some of the boys did report things they
couldn't identify a few years ago,’’ says\a
spokesman for American Airlines. '‘‘But™ our
pilots haven’t made a report for years.”

Nevertheless, ‘‘we have on file a great num-
ber of reports from pilots who don’t want their
names used but still want to tell somebody
what they’ve seen, claims J. B. Hartanft, Jr.,

president of the Aircraft Owners and Pilots As- |.

sociation, And he says: “I haven't drawn any

conclusions myself, but I think we’ve certainly

got.a.good mystery on our hands.’’
\

London, Ontar

Free Press

-26-6

100 Watch UFO

Disc-Like Object Hovers,. Rises
For Two Hours East of Kettle Point

By JIM ETHERINGTON
Free Press Sarnia Bureau

SARNIA — A revolving ob-
ject, sighted in the sky east
of Kettle Point last night, was
watched for more than two
hours by about 100 persons.

Lawrence Bressette, who op-
erates a store on the Kettle
Point Indian Reserve, said a
motorist brought the object*to
his attention about 8 p.m. He
said he looked at it through
binoculars and could see red,
blue, green and white lights
flashing from the disc-shaped
object.

Mr. Bressette said it re--
mained motionless for about
an hour flashing lights, then
slowly began to rise. Cloud
cover rolled in about 10 p.m.,
allowing only periodic sight-
ings.

“T’ve never seen anything
like this,” he said. ‘We all

UFO sightings were received
Saturday night as far north
as the tip of the ‘“‘Thumb”’ in
Lake Huron.

Odd lights were reported in
the sky over Oakland County
and the neighboring Detroit
area. Others were reported
westward in the Lansing area.

Dr. J. Allen Hynek of North-
western University, scientific
consultant to the U.S. Air
Forte said phenomena seen
at Dexter and Hillsdale on the
night of March 20 probably
were the result of | swamp
gases,

Sheriff Douglas Harvey of
Washtenaw County and civil
defence director William Van
Horn of Hillsdale County criti-
eized. Dr. Hynek’s~ report.
Van Horn said the swamp gas
explanation was an attempt
to ‘explain it away arbitrar-
ily.”

saw it. It was low — about 200 |

or 300 feet off the ground to
the east. Then it slowly began
to move up.”

Mr. Bressette said it could
not have been swamp gas
which was suggested was the
cause of unidentified ‘flying
object sightings in the Detroit
ayea last week.

“T’ve seen swamp gas lights.
This was not the same,” he
‘said. “Besides there —‘hasn’t
been any swamp gas lights
around here since before the
war.” re

\Mr. Bressette said his breth-
er, Jeffery, also reported see-
ing an object over Sarnia. This
one stayed stationary for a
short time then shot across
the sky at a very high speed.

An officer’in control opera-
tions at Selfridge Air Force
Base, Mount Clemens, Mich.,
said the Canadian sighting
was the fourth reported to
him last night. ©The other
three were fromthe Detroit
area, ;

He said no radar reports}

had been obtained on any of
the sightings.

Mr, .Bressette reported jet
‘planes in the area at one
point while the group watched
along the Lake Huron shore.
But there was no possibility
the object he saw was a jet.
In Michigan new reports of

the professor: ‘‘These objects are ion-

ing on the fact that the objects often interfere
with local electrical circuits, indicating to him
they have ‘‘a means of propulsion associated
with magnetic fields.”
“There’s Nothing To It’

Such notions are scoffed at by astronomers, ||

of science,” says Donald H. Menzel, di-
rector of the observatory at Harvard. “I have

tacular, such as reflections from ice crystals or
bright stars, searchlights on clouds or high-
flying spider webs. But to some people the exis-
tence of flying saucers is a matter of religious
fanaticism,” he says.

But Mr. Menzel réads more into the Air
Force data than does the Air Force itself. Of
the 9,786 UFO reports made to the Air Force
since 1947, 673 remain claSsified as i‘‘unidenti-
fied,’ a spokesman says. He defines this cate-
gory as containing sightings whose pertinent
data can’t be correlated with any known object

ably from outer space.” He bases his reason- |'

Hiswevey? “All this is imagination outside the |}
realier

examined Air Force cases and discovered ‘that ||
UFOs all have simple explanations in terms |
of well-known natural phenomena. THere’s not}! .
one cause, but hundreds. Some are quite spec- |!

or phenomena.

4-18-66 —

‘Report Them... Forget li—
I Have Enough Credibility-Problems As It Is’

Flying Saucers
Gain Proponent

N.Y. Daily News Dispatch
_ NEW YORK — The nephew of
the late Dag Hammarskjold

‘has startled America’s top

science writers by telling them
he believes \that' flying saucers
exist and that they come from
outer space.

Knut Hammarskjold, whose

\flate uncle was secretary gener-
\|al of the United Nations, spoke

to a convention here of the avi-
ation-space writers  associa-
tion.

Hammarskjold also suggested
that our space neighbors are
becoming more and more inter-
ested in what people are doing
on earth.

“The possible existence of
reighbors in space will, if con- ~

firmed, create problems of le-

1 Hong Kong China Mail’

three separate reports of
Flying Saucers.

Sane through a neighbouring
property.on his way to his own
farm, heard a loud mniscing noise
above the noise of the tractor.

ahead of him, a blue-grey saucer
shaped craft about 25 ft across,
and 9ft high, rose vertically to
about 60ft and travelling at a.
terrific speed headed
‘pouth-westerly direction.

During: the last eight months,
no__less thar

sightings of Flying Saucers have
been reported in the North:
Queensland press.

flocked to the Horseshoe Lagoon
in the Tully District during the’
last few days to view the circles
which are partly hidden by
‘ dense scrub.

zal,

characteristics, * he said.

[| UN Watch For Saucers Urged

political and technical. }%

Flying
saucers
mystery

2-3-66

EOPLE in North Queens-
land are mystified by.

ce first report came from a
aicreorsi banana grower, Mr
edley, who while driving a

Suddenly. about 25 yards

ed off in &

On investigation, a nest
of flattened reeds was found,
the circle being about 30ft
in diameter and since then
four other nests have been
found close by, some of theii
newly made. —

than seven different |

Hundreds. of sightseers - have

The RAAF has taken the
reports seriously enough to
ask for clippings from the
nests which - will _ be
examined, and any further

flying saucer sightings from
the area will be investigated.

Los Ange Henlaesidinee O94.

UNITED NATIONS, N.Y.,
Feb. 7 (AP)—Colman Von-
keviczky, an employe in the
U.N. Office of Public Infor-
mation, proposed to Secre-
tary-General U Thant today
that members of the United
Nations establish a network
to observe flying saucers.

Vonkeviezky, who ,says
he believes someone in out-

er space is sending flying
saucers regularly on test
flights to earth. ,

He told Thant only the |
United Nations.could be ex-
pected to have sufficient
authority to establish: con-
tact or represent mankind
in a. face-to-face meeting
be extraterrestrial _visi-

STRANGE

OVER MT.

| A-2 Los Angeles Herald-Examiner

There was something Over]
‘Mount Wilson early today but
it didn’t catch the entire city
napping. :

Police and newspaper
switchboards were flooded
with calls describing the

| object variously as a “puff,”

a “greenish ball,” a “flat
oval green object with a
long tail and a light at the
end.”

It was first sighted about
4 a.m. and remained in view
for about half an hour.

A ‘similar fireball was
sighted about the same

|| time from Sacramento and

from Vanderberg Air Force
Base, it was reported.
Vandenberg reported no
launches during the
preceding 24 hours which
might account for the phe-
nomenon and said radar

OBI JECT
WILSON

8x Thursday, April 21, 1966.
| there picked up “no unusu-
al activity” during the peri-
od.

An Air Force spokesman
at Vandenberg said the Air
Force’s “Project Blue
Book” office in Washington
was investigating.

An. observer at Mather
Air Force Base near Sacra-
mentotheorized that the ob
ject may have been gas res
idue left from Nevada
missile firings which re-
flected light.

Sgt. David Tellotson, of
Hollywood division; said the
object here appeared to be
over Griffith Park. “It was a
bright green splotch, elon-
sta and not blinking,” he

i

The only solid fact emerg-
ing: A lot of people.are up at

4 am,

[skipped page][skipped page]FLYING SAUCERS ARE REAL!

‘WTIONAL FORM NO. 10 210-108
MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27
UNITED staTe@overnmenr

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI : 10/3/66

a : SAC, LOS ANGELES (100-241}2-0/)

5 a a FLYING SAUCERS INTERNATIONAL,
OFFICIAL JOURNAL OF THE
AMALGAMATED FLYING SAUCER
CLUBS OF AMERICA, INC.
IS - MISCELLANEOUS

The Philadelphia Division by letter dated 9/22/66,
furnished the Los Angeles Division with Issue No. 24 datea “©” ’
July, 1966, entitle YING SAUCERS INTERNATIONAL", which is
the official journal of tie Amalgamated Flying Saucer Clubs
of America, Inc. The Philadelphia Division received the
magazine from Mr. JARVIS HCOOPER, IRS, 401 North Broad Street,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania on 9/19/66. Mr. COOPER stated he
subscribed to the magazine because his son had exhibited an
interest in flying saucers and outer space. He said that on
pages 2 and 3 of Issue No. 24 was an article which he believed
expounded the Communist Party (CP) line.

For the pj olay ae of the Bureau, the International
Headquarters of thi igamated Flying Saucer Clubs of America,
Inc. “located at\ 2004 North Hoover Street, Los Angeles,
California. The article, on pages 2 and 3, were allegedly YY
~writtén by Master KALEN-LI RETAN, Head of the pl. KORENDOR,
which was receiyed on 5/4/66 by special directional short-wave
radio by BOB RENAUD.
Uo re

The indiees of the Los Angeles Division contain no

information identifiable with RENAUD, and no investigation has

ever been conducted on captioned organization. BENG, Bishi pe Re

No further action is contemplated in this matter
by the Los Angeles Office, UACB. \\ REC.g 72964 Ud |

The foregoing is furnished to the Bureau for
information.

JST: gcew
(3)

6

ee
o2— 3 BSF 450

October 17, 1966

Mr. Paul L Wright
1331 Lucile Avenue, Southwest
Atlanta, Georgia 30310

Dear Mr. Wright:
Your letter of October 9th has been received.

With respect to your inquiry, matters pertaining to
sightings of Unidentified Flying Objects or‘Flying Saucers are not
within the jurisdiction of the FBI.

Inasmuch as your communication is of interest to
another governmental agency, I am referring a copy of it to the
Director of Special Investigations, The Inspector General, De-
sof Air Force, Washington, D. C. 20333.

OCT 17 1966 Sincerely yours,

COMM.FR} =~ J. Edgar Hoover
IO ra ae a

NOTE: We have had one outgoing to correspondent dated 3/10/66 in
response to his letter regarding the TV program, "The FBI."" A
copy of his letter is being sent by form to the Department of the Air
Force.

DFC:rlf (3) I yx

WEY pee

133% Asucitle
Atlanta, “Wa.
Oct. 9,1966

the Director

reau of Investigation
United States
Dept. of Justice

sa a

Washington,D.0.20535

twenty years the United

having see ato in the
U.F.O. or “lying Saucers”

s 3 — CS 3
being done about it,as it

maintained that the
s,light, weather,etc.
of the people that
idering if the
Air Force isn't lying.

I'm not the only one wondering
for the people that Il have talked to
that after the Michigan sig

others they would not report it
Forse 3f they did see a U.F.0..

Reports say that even F.B.1. Agents have
seen U.F.0.'s and this has been denied by
the Air Force.

The report recently about the phlice
officer in Ohio or Penn. having serious
family Brouble as well as being ridiculed
by naw because of his sighting, along with
a fellow police officer,of a U.F.0.

I* see’ by this that the farth: in our
Air Force is begitming ® ib; line Soe thy ;
is so then we may be 6 RECG ours es” at
the terrible position,as did Nazt German
in the 1930's.

I wish to og XS

: ents» have se
any U,F.O's AES

eee
ore (ull Ww) hl.

RR NL aR

12 OCT 20 1966

——, ae

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10 |
. roI0-1a4

. ‘UNITED STATES GO) NMENT

Memorandum

TO DIRECTOR, FBI pare: 10/19/66
cigar

SUBJECT: UNIDENTIFIED FLYING/ OBJE JI
s-X

Re Bureau Bulletins No, 57 dated 10/1/47, and No.
38 dated 3/25/49, entitled "FLYING DIScs,"

Enclosed are copies of an article entitled "Armed
Forces - Focus on UFO", which was published in the This World
supplement of the San Francisco Examiner & Chronicle, Sunday,
October 16, 1966,

This article deals with the current controversy over
the existence or nonexistence of flying saucers or Unidentified
n ebieety (UFOs), and quotes Michigan's Congression
rt. ALD FORD as suggesting that Cong gress look
ces that the Air Force, wh 1ich is
; UFOs, has commissioned the Univer-
wsics Professor EDWARD U oNDON to

conduct an in- -dept 1 study of flying s4utérs for’ the next 18
months, at an estimated cost of $300,q00. :
wives FY of COLORADO
article also points out that since Iast summer
u en mounting for the es lishment of an inde- |
t, civilian controlled investigative agency to look into
the UFO problem,

Also, for the Bureau's sneered ees there was re-
cently published (caret printin; 6) a book entitled
"Flying Saucers - Serious Business", “Lyle Stuart, Inc.,
publishers, authored by Frank Edwards. This book is now in
its third edition and is available in paperback, published
by Bantam Books, and it is probably a contributing factor to
the current controversy;

In this book author! Edwards points that flying
saucers were observed in thé) spring of 1946, in Seandinavia
and Russia (which he points out is about a year from the date

\ of the testing of the Alamago: atomic bomb), and the book

(V3) Bureau ea a 3yENCLOS PREC 53 / LA-§ 369 uf YS]

} I - Denver (Encl, 1)

it 1 - San Francisco

oo Ly 3 ocr 21 1966

5) EX-114 es
5

genset ch 1290

“Mg TIBLNE ROY
Q.938

SF 62-2927
DET:1ms

documents many reports throughout the world of UFOs since that
date, and claims that 1965 was the year of the greatest number
of UFO sightings and that these were observed by multiple wit-
nesses, It is author Edwards! contention that UFOs are space
vehicles sent to observe activities on earth and the Air Force,
which is charged with the responsibility of investigating UFOs,
has deliberately withheld information and given misleading
explanations because it fears a mass panic by the public if

the public were told the truth.

The book describes UFOs as polished metal objects,
radiating heat and light (sufficient to have burned witnesses
who were too near), and emitting some force field that inter-
feres with electromagnetic instruments and power sources,
Colors range from brilliant white to dull reds and brilliant
orange. Some objects have carried blinking lights. There are
three basic shapes: 1) zeppelin-shaped ships up to 300 feet
long; 2) disk-shaped objects ranging from a few feet in dia-
meter to 100 feet, with many reported at about 30 feet diameter;
and 3) egg-shaped objects, which according to the author are
the ones most recently sighted.

According to the book, the objects move silently and
attain fantastic speeds, yet can hover motionless in mid-air;
they have been reported to land and to take off with great
speed, usually with a burst of light from the underside, which
in some cases has left the ground beneath them scorched.

Many of the persons named in the book who have re-
ported them are reliable individuals, including law enforce-
ment officers, military personnel on official duty, military
pilots, commercial airline pilots, civilian defense officials,
etc. A number of photographs of the objects have been repro-
duced in the book, some reportedly taken by reputable persons.
Many reported sightings are from atomic and missile researc!
areas,

Wreckage of crashed saucers has been reportedly re-
covered on at least three occasions, in one case deseribed as
a magnesium alloy, in another as pure magnesium, and in a third
case, attributed to an official of the Canadian government, the
material was described as an exceptionally hard unknown metal,
actually a matrix of magnesium orthosilicate which contained
thousands of 15-micron metal spheres throughout, and showing
evidence of micro-meteorites on its surface.

t predictior
1 UFOs 1 "overt landing" or
deliberat é

A copy of I 8 g dire to Denver,
in view of the contrac warded to Dr, EDWARD U, CONDON.

ne above is being called Bureau's ntion

in view o he press peeey of mounting pressure for ¢ pivitdan

ra t
controlled investigative C idle UFO matters.

ARMED FORCES
Focus on UFO

Winking, blinking and nod-
ding — red lights over Pasa-
dena, blue lights over
Greensboro, silVer cigars
over Detroit — people kept
seeing strange flying objects,
and officials kept saying
nothing was out there.

But in recent years, and
pa war]; ce last sum-
mer, the e had been
mounting £ ther a full-
scale Congr onal in ti-
gation or for the establish-
ment of an independent, ci-

n-controlled investigato-
agency.

‘lying Objects.
The sightings had come in
bunches, the bulk of them
last spring and summer. And
the reports had come from
all over,

“Like Neon Lamps”

Among the most intriguing
items in this year’s crop:

@ At Milan, Michigan, 15
miles south of Ann Arbor,
bluish- yellow bars of light
were spotted, looking “like
neon lamps dangling in the
sky.”

© In East Delhi, Mich., a
15-year-old boy called in to
report seeing lights in the
sky alternately standing still

id moving, sometimes

ng on and off.

e@ Jn Altadena and San
Marino, Calif., police switch-
boards logged dozens of calls
after a pair of red lights in
the sky were reported by
residents.

© In Toledo, Ohio, officials
at the local airport received
seven calls from persons who
said they saw a glowing ob-
ject that was red, green and
white,

e@ In suburban -Detroit,.a
man saw a noiseless, wing-
less, cigar-shaped flying ob-
ject. :

e In Bryan, Texas, resi-
‘dents said they heard a
star-like object purr.

@ Over Valdese, N.C., a
“glowing blue thing” explod-
ed, then lit up the town like a
giant flashbulb.

Sometimes the alleged
over into
ce ship full
dly landed
: Hopkins-

y he little
men glowed, and they were
described as ‘‘three feet tall,
with eyes like saucers and

claws.”

Nebraska
ivited into a
space ship where he chatted
with four men and two wom-
en. They spoke only broken
English—but fluent High
German which, as it hap-
pened, was the grain buyer’s

native tongue.

Silvery Cigar

Nor did America have any
corner on the UFO market.
In Northern Ireland, Tom
Hutchinson saw a saucer
drop into a peat bog near his
home in Moneymore. It was
eggshaped, tlnee feet in di-

UPI Televhoto

DR, CONDON

Saucer-watcher

é

ameter, 18 inches high. It be-
gan to spin and Hutchinson

* grabbed it. He was carrying
it to the police, who de-
scribed him as “level-headed
and God-fearing,’’ when the
thing twisted out of his hands
and got away.

And in Warminster, Eng-
land, a city council worker
said he saw a silvery cigar
shape drifting over the vil-
lage downs. After a time, he
s it seemed to stretch.
Then it seemed to divide
amidships with a flash of or-
ange light, although there
was no noise.

Flaming Object

Not all the sightings could
be easily written off as the
phantasmagoria of kooks,
eranks and drunks. And, un-
Jess one subscribed to a theo-
ry of mass hallucination, it
was difficult to explain away

ultaneous sightings con-
firmed by many rational wit-
nesses — such as the flaming
object that was seen last
April by thousands of East
Coast residents from Wash-
ington to Boston and even
temporarily disrupted a ball
game between the Chicago
White Sox and the Wash-
ington Senators in Wash-
ington, D. C.

Or the incident in Hills-

dale, Michigan last March, in
which a Civil] Defense Direc-
tor, an assistant dean, and 87
coeds reported that they had
seen a glowing object zip
past their college dormitory
and hover in a swamp for
hours. Witnesses said they
watched from the second
floor of the Hillsdale College
girls dormitory as the object
wobbled, wavered, glowed
eerily and once zipped right
at a dormitory window be-
fore stopping suddenly.

A Meteor?

The Air Force, charged
with investigating every one

i day, October 16, 1966 = oe |
This World, Sunday, October ‘b <-§357 Se

S. F. Sunday Examiner & Chronicie

ENCLOSURE

of the 11,000 sightings since
7, did have some ex-
planations. “The mysterious
flaming object in the East
was “probably a meteor.”

As for Michigan’s much-
publicized and plentiful
unidentified flying objects,
they turned out to be

instead of
“Unidentified
laying pranks

from
a distingu astronomer
led y Air Force to
investigate the Hillsdale af-
fair.

Every report of a “flying
saucer” had ostensibly been
ehecked out by the Ai
Force’s special squad known
as “Project Blue Book,” al-
though the staff was woefully
small. Of the 10,1 ghtings
since 1947, the Air Force
insisted that only 646 remain

explained — and most of
these because of insufficient
information. The others have
been attributed to planes,
balloons, astronomical
causes, missiles, swamp gas,
meteors, fireworks and, in
some cases, to hallucinations
and psychological reasons.

Ball Lightning?

Philip Klass, avionics edi-
tor of Aviation Week & Space
Technology magazine,
recently proposed some other

explanations. Klass, an
electronics engineer, said a
form of “ball lightning,’’ gen-
erated by high tension power
lines, could explain the phe-
nomena.

Many of the sightings, said
Klass, occurred along or very
near high-tension lines where
luminous balls of ionized air
could be generated under
certain conditions.

‘No Threat’

The main _ conclusions
reached by the Air Force
were:

@ “No unidentified flying
objects reported, investigat-
ed and evaluated by the Air
Force have ever given a
dication of a threat to o'
national security.”

e “There has been no ev-
YWdence submitted to or discov-
ered by the Air Force that
sightings represent techno-
logical develop

been no evi-

dence th. ‘ings catego-

as unidentified are ex-
traterrestrial vehicles.”

Major
however,

Donald Keyhoe,
was unconvinced,
oe, USMC (re-

i he Nation-
al Investigations Committee
on Aerial Phenomena (NI-
rivate space watch-

ition, accused the

ir Force of conducting a
-term whitewash on the

It was Keyhoe’s theory
that the Air Force was with-
holding information for fear
of causing public panic.

ed the Major,
who had never seen on
of ext al ori
Force feared th:
9

PS

public could not accept this
knowledge. “They won’t give

é

you details,” he complained.
“If they did, many of their
explanations would fall flat.”

And Keyhoe could also
claim a powerful ally in
gan’s Gerald Ford, the
se Republican leader,
v ed it would be “a
ome thing”? for
to look into uniden-
ying objects. Such an
Ford suggest-
ake the Ameri-
can people “feel better.””

Sindy in Depth

Whether or not that was so,

ihe Air Force last week took

to make itself

Fed up with in-

reports of glow-

ing. zooming, wink-

awesome, blinking,

ing, hovering things,

ir Force last week de-

ed to bail itself out of all

responsibility for future con-
sions concerning UFOs.

The Air Force announced
that it had commissioned the
University of Colorado to
conduct an “in-depth” study
of flying saucers for the next
18 months. The director of
the st (expected to cost
$300,000) would be Dr. Ed-
ward U. Condon, former di-
rector of the National Bureau
of Standards, and now a

physics professor at Colora-
do. :

To satisfy the skeptics, and
insure the study’s objectivi-
ty, Colorado would select
several other universities to
take part in the independent
investigation, with about 100
scientists participating,

And in case that wasn’t
enough, the National Acade-
my of Sciences also agreed
to appoint a panel to review
the Colorado report. e

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10 > 5010-106
sori ce

UNITED STATES GC® ERNMENT :
Memorandum

Mr. Wick DATE: 10-24-66

SUBJECT soba

FREE-LANCE WRITER
4811 ILLINOIS AVENUE, NORTHWEST.
WASHINGTON, D.C.

On October 21, 1966, captioned individual telephonically
contacted the Bureau and spoke with SA Thomas B. Coll of the Crime
Research Section. a

He advised that he is a free-lance writer and is working
on a story for a TV production concerning unidentified flying objects.

He stated that he has been in personal contact with a former Air Force
officer who uses the alias of Mi oel concerning unidentified flying
objects and that it is the TV producer's intention to use this individual
in the forthcoming TV show. He advised that Noel is not the individual's
true name and inquired as to whether the FBI could advise him of Noel's
real identity.

Moss was advised that the FBI could not be of any
assistance to him and that all information in FBI files is confidential.
He was also advised that the investigation of unidentified flying objects /
is not, and never has been, a matter within the investigative jurisdiction
of the FBI,

Bufiles contain no information which can be identified

with Moss. 4, 5 6
RECOMMENDATION: REE by 52-5 \ fear

ee

aa oct 25 1966

For record purposes. _ We (a
0
LU

1- Mr, DeLoach ye /) vi
1- Mr, Wic KAY

70 O£T 31 1966

{t
UA

MOIM 0-334

ede
qo ASE | 2 196 gg, Wd 2t S 12190

“AIO TVBLNE WEE
0.93%

FBI

COMM.

Mr, J. 4A¢ Hennessey

10 Manson Place
South Kensington
London, 8. W. 7, England

Dear Mr, Hennessey: 4

I have received your letter of 0 vember 26th.

In response to your inquiry, the policy of this
Bureau regarding the investigation of Unidentified Flying Objects
has not changed since I wrote to you on January 26, 1965. Also,

it is contrary to my long-standing policy to express an opinion on
such matters.

Since my prior communication to you has been
destroyed, I am enclosing another for your files and trust this
wili be of help to you in reconstructing your records.

Sincerely yours,

er
Enclosure

1 - London - Enclosure
1 - Foreign Liaison Unit - Enclosure

NOTE: Bufiles disclose one prior letter from correspondent and
a reply, made to him 1-26-65.

Brun AN tb A ty \v ae
(5) wats - f

YA YD

ASSOGINTE MEMBER OF THE AMERICA
| OF AERONAUTICS & ASTRONAUTICS

¢ MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL INVESTIGATIONS
\ COMMITTEE ON AERIAL PHENOMENA

$

ITUTE

November,

Hoover,

ureau of Investigation,

wrote to

of you Bureau
nidentified

their findings

investigated reported

odjects and »¥

was available. You replied
agents investigated t
law

were

se cases

any Federal had been

jings confidentiz

Since receiving your lett

records, many of my records includin

destroyed recently in a fire

therefore erateful if, the purnoses

for

records, nfirm your letter of 1964/5

is still the same.

REC- 62 = GA.

In addition, I would

Fa

be pleased

unidentified fly
appreciate that

l NCLOST TRA

to learn what

objects.

10 MANSON PLACE

OFF QUEENSGATE
SOUTH KENSINGTON
LONDON, S.W.7

Tevernone; KENsincTon 4200

4OCE

ou and

why.

agents

placed
letter

would

in my

were

TS
your

If you

eabmere,
\
¢
£
a
5
f
3
>

: Bufiles reflect t an unidentified flying object was sighted
Socorro, New Mexico, on April 24, 1964. Captain Holder, United
Force, along with SA D. Arthur Byrnes, Jr., interviewed
ie Zamora of the Socorro Police Department who had observed
nomena. SA Byrr typed such a statement from Zamora which
as later included in a memo for dissemination. The Albuquerque
Office did not conduct any investigation other than to keep the Bureau
advised and maintain liaison with the Air Force. This is apparently
the situation to which the correspondent is referring. Bufiles contain
no information identifiable with the correspondent.

e

December 21, 1966

<7 Me

(>a)
/ 1 \0%te, Joe Thorn .
em Chief of Police |
Princeton, West Virginia 24740

My dear Chief:

ZL

Your letter was received on December 19th,

Although I appreciate the motives prompting you to
write me, unidentified flying objects do not come within the scope
of this Bureau's authority, Iam, however, referring a copy of your
letter to the Director of Special Investigations, The Inspector Gen-
eral, Department of the Air Force, Washington, D. C., whose
agency has conducted related studies,

Sincerely yours,
@. Edgar Hoover

1 - Pittsburgh - Enclosure
- Attention SAC: Correspondent is not identifiable in Bureau indices,

NOTE: Copy of incoming sent to OST by form,

DCLisep (4)
Ay?

DY SN

December 27, 1966

SX
Miss Judith Goodman
12 Williams Street
Bradford, Pennsylvania 16701

Dear Miss Goodman:
I have received your letter of December 20th.
Although I would like to be of assistance, matters

pertaining to Unidentified Flying Objects are not within the juris-
diction of the FBI.

Inasmuch as your communication is of interest
to another governmental agency, I am referring a copy of it to
the Director of Special Investigations, The Inspector General,
Department of the Air Force, Washington, D. C. 20333.

Sincerely yours,

0. Edear Hoover

NOTE: Bufiles contain no record of correspondent. A copy of
her letter was sent to the Department of the Air Force by form
referral this date.

BGH:gda (3)
an
ha

. TOLSON — =
OFFICE OF DIRECTOR ORCCALE ae

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGA’ Wyn \ woes
UNIVED STATES DEPARTMENT OF #@STICE wa
. CASPER
. CALLAHAN

(December 23, 1966) CONRAD SS eee

- FELT ——

Judith Goodman . CALE —
12 Williams St. . ROSEN —
Bradford, Pa. 16701 SULLIVAN

MR. TAVEL ——

AUCarLS |. TROTTER —

Mr. J. Edgar Hoover ees ee
4936 30th Place Miss HOLMES
Washington, D.C. Mans. METCALF

MISS GANDY

Dear Mr. Hoover,

Iam doing my Science Fair project on

U.F.O.s. Could you please send me any and
all imformation you have on this subject?

would also appreciate any imformation you
may have as to how many planes we have lost es
chasing U. F.O.s. Why has this imformation

een kept a secret? Why is it important to
national defense ?

Also would you happen to know if any other
sides ourself have spotted U. F.O.s in

Judith Goodman. _
ce ewes eam

Ree 48a ee 29 1968!

WIIM 0-934

I¢4

99 HY 2s Q) £7 93

Mr G. &daqan Aeover
YA 3b 3go* V0 ow.

a.

LO ae menvens WO C

<< one A SOAK Qa Yr2- kat

Lows aa U.P Ds WO i" va Veo ee

DT 5 pian Ake Lo ay to a nh Vere OE Ue

2 OK

A ove

Ge WwW ou dud
aa A. Pea hy a inca Best poly Shane op seal
ne Dia Sn feat Ne

ry h ldo Db: CLAS A Sis aN WWW —~

4 K€

ey Ne oh eas M eens df

C
Q )
A 4

Wed 92 G 22 23g

I@d

YOL93uiG - Q3A1393y

0-20 (Rev. 1-26-66) Tolson A,
|] eLoach
a

Casper
Callahan
Conrad
Felt
Gale

V Ro
shi
Tél
Trotter
Tele. Room

Holmes
Gandy

UPI-133

wr JAN 20 1967

WASHINGTON CAPITAL NEWS SERVIC Eeweme: __ —

\

79 JAN 23 1967

@

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Gale
Liaison Section
Mr. McAndrews

o Rare, January 18, 1967
"UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECT yp
ALLEGEDLY SIGHTING, JANUARY 17, 1967 ph * “a fe

et w a”

At 4:10 a.m., January 18, 1967, James 7 Collins,
212 Sharon Drive, Chesapeake, Virginia, telephone "547-4648,
advised that he desired to report that he had observed a large
oblong-shaped object which alighted in the street in front
of him when he was on his way home from his television repair
shop, the Oak Grove T. ¥., 6424. Great Bridge Road, Chesapeake,
Virginia. He believes that he was taken into this craft which
he recalls as being made of a glass like substance and being
transparent. It was manned by several individuals who appeared
to be undersized creatures similar to members of the human
race, probably not more than 4 feet tall. They were allegedly
wearing regular trouser pants and T-Shirts. Collins believes
that he was transported by this craft for an undetermined
distance and returned to his point of take-off approximately
one hour later.

/ The ¢

Collins spoke in a coherent manner although he
appeared to be under certain emotional strain. He claimed
he had not been drinking any intoxicants but he was unable
to account for the time between 8:00 p.m. and 4:00 a.m.. He
stated he was telephoning from his workshOp)but had no recollection
of being elsewhere between 8:90 p.m. and 4:00 a.m.

The above is being furnished for your information.

OK
A. R. Ware, Special Investigative Division. A check of Bureau

indices did not disclose any information which could be identified
with Collins. , 9 ¢

acl GA- 17. as)

NOTE: Collins furnished information to night supervisor SA

This document contains neither
recommendations nor conclusions of A f
the FBI. It is the property of Th

ed to your agency, A

m9 JAN 20 1967

~ absolutely manipulated-=your Lie detector tests. dap be,
- spositively controlled without’ your knowledge.’

i, hearing by sdund\'or word, sight
ad. |} ision blocks of intensity of clax.
dnt) control of’ ¢} direction itself, Any ph;
in be , Mental and conversation:
; can be created at any time. ~ Ustalily weet public

embarrassment ‘to that person. Naturally mat} we kel Pn

_ °° typing, ‘book keéping ‘can\be'manipulated to thé extremes:
K ‘ustration or nervous or. mental collapse. Sexual
lax can be made to most-atly individual anywhere or
anytime. xy Pay ie #3 ales, con

SS) of kind
random,

n trv rental trailors, autos, etc.) Mm t
nt is from out of state, particularly California,
alileyby non-tourists who are here for reas.

nd) who’ .d for ‘Texas plates

dive review of my duiving record; particularly
believe most aré prendditated, alisince 1941
d\ Geol muchiin the Navy) while ‘at wat,”
‘lL -appointments of Some members of) th

Clear carbon with the valid s
'y for fraiming purposes
and in court’ will bi

ig 6xpe.

fety, and many other ueason
made publi: TI believe it hi
ja select fen 4

suspect that most if not afd’ National Congressmen’ |
now Of the method and havejused it for person aye

4-22 (Rev. 1-22-60) tee
“ Federal Bureau @f Investigation

Records “@

Néme Searching Unit - Room 6527
(2) Secvise Unit - Room 6524
Fofward to File Revie;
ae Attention aaa z a
to. i
Supervisor Room Ext.
Type of Reférentes Requested:
@qular Request (Analytical Search) ;
All References (Subversive & Nonsubversive),
Subversive References Only
[ "}Nonsubversive References Only
Main __________. References Only

Type of Search Requested:
Restricted to Locality of
[JB xact Name Only (On the Nose)
[1] Buildup, Variations
&

ee

Subject ER Raa sarell a
Birthdate @Plece
Addregs a

Ps

Localities —_
: archer
Fda ty ho cian Mia Tae ee

Prod.

FILE NUMBER SERIAL

TUK

| Maen

WE Basitisy)

Pepper

ate

OPTIONAL. FORM NO. fan s010-107~02
MAY {982 EDITION Pi * nat

(10549871) RUC)

Vine Lon ed are 3. copies of iq. (b) (7)(D)

(b) (7)(D) letter dated 4/27/67, craibt ae in SECRET):
oontents, nar ELAN EOS Yee pang

é Bureau fey desire to: fuckin eOpy.
L ster to. Minlah Bde for. infoxmat fon RUS EOE.

Bunea (eae 3 Aaa
ope eany (sent nae ;

iu N . SIE Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Sioa Plan

ag Cerzexpondence to. must be under double cover.
‘The outer snvelopé shoul be addressed to: _- ;
“<., ¥. 2 Tae Seorppany, Box 500, ParviAMENT STREET
“Vand viot to any individual, . Ses ert

“01-930 6789: Ext,

E050x1 STATE:
E050x6 STATE

iicchian a: ta ar
‘Dotaraao to hivestigate

to

sive References Only
A References Only

e & Nonsubyersive
sive References Only “
nsubversive Reference

—|Main — -Referentes Oni

earch Requested: *

[-“JRestricted to Locality of —
= JExact Name Only (On the Nose)"

Bull Vatidtions -
a Bane,

ieclassified Case:

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAY 1982 EDITION

D, 65a remn (41 crn) 101-116 @
UNITED STATES yERNMENT

SUBJECT:

@. Bureau (Hnc,. sy
- Miami )

LB/bab g§ v
q

10-108-01

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI
SAC, MIAMI (62-0-11328 )

PAUL L, PEYERL ———<——__-—-——~,
INFORMATION CONCERNING

A review of the Miami indices revealed information
reflecting subject appeared at the Miami Office on July 24,
1959, and uiunteered to return to Austria as an intelligence
agent. His expressed motivation was to do something to repay
the debt he felt he owed the United States. He was afforded
the Washington, D, C. Headquarters address of the Central
Intelligence Agency and told his inquiry should be directed
tere,

Also, on July 4, 1961, he appeared at the Miami
Office and gave an incoherent story of recently meeting an
individual who asked him to kill his mother, PEYERL appeared
to be somewhat bewildered and continuously gazed away from the
interviewing Agent.

During his most recent visit to the Miami Office,
PEYERL seemed genuinely concerned about the existence }
of the object he allegedly photographed during November, 1944,
He exhibited no emotional nor mental disorder and appeared to
be rational,

In view of recent publicity afforded UFO sightings,
some apparently by responsible sources, this information

is submitted to the Bureau for consideration of transmittal
to the U. S. Air Force,

vi Dy gl G RN

© od hee

cee cen ee

14 JUN £21624

(3)
Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
In Reply, Please Refer to

File No. 62-0-11328 Miami, Florida
June 8, 1967

RE; PAUL
INFORMATION CONCERNING

eu Ae vA

On ril 26, 1967, PAUL L, PEYERL, 1430 Southwest
76th Street, ami, Florida, appeared at the Miami Office and
furnished the following information relating to an object,
presently referred to as an unidentified flying object, he
allegedly photographed during November, 1944:

Sometime during 1943, he graduated from the
German Air Academy and was assigned as a member of the
Luftwaffe on the Russian Front, Near the end of 1944, he
was released from this duty and was assigned as a test
pilot to a top secret project in the Black Forest of Austria,
During this period he observed the aircraft described above,
It was saucer shaped, about twenty-one feet in diameter,
radio controlled, and mounted several jet engines around the
exterior portion of the craft. He further described the
exterior portion as revolving around the dome in the center
which remained stationary. It was PEYERL's responsibility
to photograph the object while in flight. He asserted he
was able to retain a negative of a photograph he made at 7,000
meters (20,000 feet), A Xerox copy of the negative, as furnished
by PEYERL, appears on the last page of this communication,
Also, a still photograph he allegedly made "at the risk of my
life", illustrating the object parked in a hanger, appears on
the last page.

According to PEYERL, the aboye aircraft was designed
and engineered by (First Name Unknown){\KUEHR, a German engineer
whose present whereabouts is unknown him, He assumed KUEHR
was taken into custody by Allied Forcés upon the termination
of hostilities, PEYERL stated KUEHR unsuccessfully attempted
to avoid the German draft, but was apprehended by the Gestapo

RE; PAUL L, PEYERL
INFORMATION CONCERNING

in Vienna, Austria, sometime during late 1943 or early 1944,
PEYERL also assumed the secrets prtaining to this aircraft
were captured by Allied Forces, He said this type of aircraft
was responsible for the downing of at least one American B-26
airplane, He furnished the following fuel and engine data;

"....Fuel mixture of NoH4,0 in Methyl Alcohol
(CH3g0H) rather than 'oxygen-holding' mixture of

hydrogen peroxide Hj09 in water, 7m 1,3m high two
rocket motors; smooth flow, rotary drive over 2,000
meters per second...."

PEYERL said he copied this data from a board
located in the hanger area,

PEYERL asserted he was shot down by the British
on March 14, 1945, after having been reassigned to the
Western Front. He was held prisoner by the British in
London and later in Brussels until his release in 1946,

He departed for the United States from Bremerhaven, Germany,
on December 26, 1951; entering the United States in New
Jersey on January 7, 1952, and was subsequently naturalized
in Miami during 1958, He is presently employed as a
mechanic at Eastern Airlines, Miami, Florida, He related

he was born May 3, 1924, in Austria,

PEYERL stated he has withheld this information
because he assumed the United States possessed it. He has
become increasingly concerned because of the unconfirmed
reports concerning a Similar object and denials the United
States has such an aircraft. He feels such a weapon would
be beneficial in Vietnam and would prevent the further loss
of American lives which was his paramount purpose in contacting
the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI).

PEYERL reiterated he has the original negatives
of both photographs. He said the shots were taken at a thirty
second time exposure,

This document contains neither recommendations nor
conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is
loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be
distributed outside your agency.

46 »

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No. 69..0011328 Miami, Florida
dune 8, 1967

RE; PAUL L, PEYERL
INFORMATION CONCERNING

On April 26, 1967, PAUL L, PEYERL, 1430 Southwest
76th Street, Miami, Florida, appeared at the Miami Office and
furnished the following information relating to an object,
presently referred to as an unidéntified flying object, he
allegedly photographed during November, 1944:

Sometime during 1943, te graduated from the
German Air Academy and was assigned as a member of the
Luftwaffe on the Russian Front. Near the end of 1944, he
was released from this duty and was assigned as a test
pilot to a top secret project in the Black Forest of Austria.
During this period he observed the aircraft described above.
It was saucer shaped, about twenty-one feet in diameter,
radio controlled, and mounted several jet engines around the
exterior portion of the craft. He further described the
exterior portion as revolving around the dome in the center
which remained stationary. It was PEYERL's responsibility
to photograph the object while in flight. He asserted he
was able to retain a negative of a photograph he made at 7,000
meters (20,000 feet). A Xerox copy of the negative, as furnished
peggy ue appears on the last page of this communication.
iso, ® still photograph he allegedly made "at the risk of my
laze’, illustrating the object parked in a hanger, appears on
the last page.

According to PEYERL, the above aircraft was designed
and engineered by (First Name Unknown) KUEHR, a German engineer
whose present whereabouts is unknown to him. He assumed KUEHR
was taken into custody by Allied Forces upon the termination
of hostilities. PEYERL stated KUEHR unsuccessfully attempted
to avoid the German draft, but was apprehended by the Gestapo

» Austria, sometime during iate 1943 or early
also assumed the secrets prtaining to this aircraft
captured by Allied Forces, He said this type of aircraft
responsible for the downing of at least one American B-26
irpiane. He furnished the following fuel and engine data:

“.oo-Fuel mixture of NgH,O in Methyl Alcohol
(CHgOH) rather than ‘oxygen-holding’ mixture of
hydrogen peroxide in water. %.1,3m high two
rocket motors; flow, rotary drive over 2,000
meters per second...."

PEYERL ssid he copied this data from a board
lecated in the hanger orea.

PEYERL asserted he was shot down by the British
on March 14, 1945, after having been reassigned to the
Western Front. He prisoner by the British in
London and until his release in 1946.
States from Bremerhaven, Germany,
the United States in New
was subsequently naturalized
asa

later in Brussels
He departed for the United
on December

i
g
FY

1
i
fi Hl
age fe
EF
ia

:

]
aif
FH
ili
H
Hl
Cl ie
i
anf

rel
sete
if
if #

al
fel
il

i
=
:
:
F
g

|
:
&
Fy
:

|
!

F
iL

4]
:
:
i
it

20 RAST IT

“4

eres

CEN
Fc fe 2 om Sw,

eat

NO ite casi TE |

G0 STATES DEPARTMENT Uae

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to
File No,

62-0~11328 Miami, Florida
dune 8, 1967

On April 26, 1967, PAUL L. PEYERL, 1430 Southwest
76th Street, Miami, Florida, appeared at the Miami Office and
furnished the following information relating to an oeree

tly referred to as an unidentified flying object, he
allegedly photographed during November, 1944:

Sometime during 1943, he graduated from the
German Air Academy and was assigned as a member of the
Luftwaffe on the Russian Front. Near the end of 1944, he
was released from this duty and was assigned as a test
pilot te a top secret project in the Black Forest of Austria.
During this period he observed the aircraft described above.
It was saucer shaped, about twenty-one feet in diameter,
vadio controlled, and mounted several jet engines around the
exterior portion of the craft. He further described the
exterior portion as revolving around the dome in the center
which remained stationary. It was PEYERL'’s responsibility
to photograph the object while in flight. He asserted he
was able to retain a negative of a photograph he made at 7,000
meters (20,000 feet). A Xerox copy of the negative, as furnished
by PEYERL, appears on the last page of this communication.
Also, a still photograph he allegedly made “at the risk of my
life", illustrating the object parked in a hanger, appears on
the last page.

According to PEYERL, the above aircraft was designed
and engineered by (First Name Unknown) KUEHR, a German engineer
whose present whereabouts is unknown to him. He assumed KUEHR
was taken into custody by Allied Forces upon the termination
of hostilities. PEYERL stated KUEHR unsuccessfully attempted
to avoid the German draft, but was apprehended by the Gestapo

PEYERL reiterated he has the original negatives
ef both photographs. He said the shots were taken at a thirty
second time exposure.

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is
agency; 4% and its contents are not to be

Best Possible Image

UNITE ES GOVERNMENT

Memorandym &

DIRECTOR, FBI paTE: 7/25/67

SAC, NEWARK (47-0)

UNIDENTIFIED AERIAL OBJECTS
IVAN SANDERSON, COMPLAINANT
ALLEGED IMPERSONATION OF FBI AGENTS
4.AND MILITARY PERSONNEL
+ IMPERSONATION

TF ty

Enclosed/herewith for the Bureau ar hapters
13 and 14 of a book now being prepared by. IVAN ANDERSON,
The book relates t Unidentified Aerial Objects (UAO) which

SANDERSON states will “soon be published in magazine form on
a nation-wide basis. Ride )\ /
NS

SANDERSON, who claims to Have written several books,
is a graduate of Oxford in England and has various degrees,
He states that he has appeared on the Gary Moore Show and
other types of television projects, He relates that he has
been extremely concerned about UAOs and in the submitted
material he eludes briefly to the FBI and the CIA,

There does not appear to be a violation of the
rsonation Statute or any other violation over which this
cau now has jurisdiction, The enclosed information is
submitted only for the Bureau's interest and no further
action is cht. id Newark, /

2 - Bureau Bago?

1 - Newark V

NSI:; JuP
(3)
\ Scr la ie ~~
X3 yIY Woke hue 22967
NOT RECORDED ie
152 JUL 28 1967 :
| os

6 1 Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

ORIGINAL FILED IN

SZ

pe)

rn ETE SS ee ee

August 24, 1967

, You

REC- 14 \
Mr. Theodore Gray Hullett
561 37th Avenue.
San Francisco, California 94121

yi

Dear Mr. Hullett:

Mr. Hoover received your letter of
August 19th, with enclosure, and wanted you to know
he appreciates your best wishes. He asked me to
thank you for sending the publication you forwarded
to him.

Sincerely yours,

| MAILED 19

AUG 24 1967
| comm-fet Helen W. Gandy y
i Secretary

NOTE: Bufiles contain nothing igentifiable regarding correspondent
and no record of the publication; ‘ufo contact." Inasmuch as
correspondent might possiblyjuse\A letter from the Director in some
manner to promote this magazine, an in-absence reply is deemed
advisable. a

Eri G-938

aa

(8 Hg 9G Ep af

August 19, 1967

|

I

Wb
Director J. Edgar Hoover
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Washington, D. C.

Dear Mr. Hoover:
A very Happy Birthday....... July 1967.

Lucky to have the opportunity this afternoon to be

I am very
This

able to Introduce to you the ufo contact igap journal.

Jeorge Adams! L.

magazine has been dedicated to Mr.

My letter to you and the enclosed magaz

ine is a project of my
own, I am a reporter for ufo contact, and in this way I hope to

bring to the attention.of V.I.P. of our country, our magazine and=-
| the message that it c@gtains, to the reader, I don't sell the bis
| magaz, ne but plan ape itgto the person I write to as a gift.
is my own, and theregperience I will gain will be my
a Perhaps an adyencepeng, to the position of co-worker for

IGAP in the future. wy =
oS FAIS

Thank you very mich for Aiving me a moment of your time,
> you will find our,magazine inte: ting. S

TP an
May I again wish you a very Happy Birthday! (Walter Winchell)
Your Friend,

Theodore Gray Hullett.

561 37th Avenue

San Francisco, California
ZIP CODE: 9121

16 SEP 12 1967

ll

Aue 22° il se AH

FBI

REC+O WICK

ufo contact

igap journal ae

Ss —

= SS a
<>

i wy

mn

SSE —
Ss )

So
os SoooseSe 2S SISOS

SSSSSSSSSOS

Setete
——
acer
\
<
SoS
SSS OSSFS

nternaticnal
PRINTED IN DENMARK et acqua [ nted
ee program

Fraternity of
Cosmic
Sons and Daughters

IGAP Information Service:

UFO CONTACT.

Editors:
Mr Ronald Caswell,
309 Carters Mead,
Harlow, Essex,
England.

Major H. C. Petersen

(responsible for publication and subscription),
Bavnevolden 27, Maaloev, Sj.,

Denmark.

ORGANIZATION.

Headquarters:
The George Adamski Foundation,
314 Lado de Loma Drive,
Vista, California, U.S.A.

IGAP Representatives in: —
America, Australia, Austria
Belgium, Brazil
Canada
Denmark
England
Finland
Germany
Holland
Indonesia
Japan
Mexico
Norway
Sweden, Switzerland.

Subscription: (Calendar Year)

Surface mail $3.50, £ 24 Sh. per annum
Airmail $5.00 per annum

Single copy $1.00 (s.m.)

(or equivalent in other currencies).

PLEASE NOTE! - COPYRIGHT IGAP

MATERIAL FROM UFO CONTACT MAY
ONLY BE USED AFTER WRITTEN PER-
MISSION IS OBTAINED FROM:

IGAP Information Service,
Bavnevolden 27,
Maaloev SJ., | Denmark.

The Editors.

Purpose and scope

This magazine has been dedicated to
MR. GEORGE ADAMSKI.

Mr. Adamski launched the IGAP — International Get
Acquainted Program — in 1959, based on the philosophy
that people in all parts of the world should be given
the opportunity of knowing what is going on everywhere
in the field of flying saucers. His hope was that as
many as possible would discover the truth of the pre-
sent age and turn to face the time to come — to learn
to accept, through conviction, the fact that we are all
citizens of the Cosmos and Children of the Cosmic Pow-
er whose Laws run through the entire Cosmos. These
Laws we can learn to comprehend through study and
understanding of the »Science of Life« brought to our
attention by the presence of friendly visitors from other
worlds.

The magazine is sent to civil and military authorities
all over the world, to leaders in the United Nations, in
the Vatican, in scientific circles, and to Press, radio
and TV authorities.

The purpose of this magazine is to bring to every-
one, everywhere, news of events from all quarters of
the globe in all its varied aspects. This means any news
that can possibly be of value in our endeavour to bring
to mankind an understanding of what is going on in our
world all the time. We shall try to detect any and every
move in the direction of that truth which we have acc-
epted, but which is not yet officially accepted or rec-
ognized in broader circles:

1. People from other worlds in our system are visit-
ing our planet.

. People from other worlds are in contact with cer-
tain political and scientific circles in East and West.

. People from all walks of life, official and unoffi-
cial, all over the world, have been contacted by
people from other worlds; such contacts have been
kept secret so far.

. The philosophy brought to the world by Mr. Geo-
rge Adamski is considered and aid helping to un-
cover the truth of our origin and our future destiny.

The magazine will make no attempt whatsoever to
fight anyone, in spite of any action which might be laun-
ched against it. Only the truth, whatever its guise, will
be brought to bear, to allow each to decide for himself
what he can and will accept in this wonderful world on
his march forward to new experiences.

This magazine is non-political, non-religious, non-sec-
tarian and non-profit-making. We hope that you may
profit from reading it, and that you will tell as many
as possible about it, — especially if you find it of value.
Please write to us if youfind it without value or if you
have any suggestions or comments to make.

Sincerely yours,
The Editors.

»

NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION
GODDARD SPACE FLIGHT CENTER
GREENBELT, MARYLAND 20771

FILE ivcu,

Mr. Fred Steckling FEB 20 1967

Alexandria, Virginia 22312
Dear Mr. Steckling:

Thank you very much for your letter and for your offer to show us
your Eilm. Tf am not really qualified ts pass judgment on if, but it
would be good to have the people here at Goddard who are look at it.
May I suggest, then, that you give Mr. Penn Stevens, ,» a call.
He will make an appointment for you to come out to Goddard and show the
Photographic Branch and me your film. Unfortunately we have no Smm
projector here, so I must ask you to bring your own. Thank you again
for your offer.

Sincerely yours,

(eo € off

Paul D Lowman, Jr.
Geochemistry Laboratory
Laboratory for Theoretical Studies

DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
WASHINGTON 20330

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY

Dear Mr. Steckling:

Your letter concerning your unidentified flying object (UFO)
film finally reached my office---Office of Information for Project
Blue Book, the Air Force UFO program.

The Air Force would be very interested in reviewing your
film. If you would get in touch with me at the Pentagon, we will
arrange a showing for any Monday which is convenient for you.
My number is "eae, AE iia

Thank you for offering to show your film; I am looking forward
to hearing from you.

Sincerely,

Lt Colonel,

Chief, Civil Branch
Community Relations Division
Office of Information

140 ufo contact

at home and watch your favourite television pro-
gramme. Then you will forget all about it. But do
you ever wonder what becomes of old television
programmes — apart from the ones they show on
Sundays?! Do they just fade out and vanish — or
do they keep travelling through space for ever,
perhaps to be picked up by creatures on other
planets? Fantastic — — but scientists think it is pos-
sible. After all, we here in Britain were able to
watch the Olympic Games in Japan via a satellite
in outer space.

»Some scientists even think that weird cracklings
and gibberish that occasionally come in on radio and
TV programmes are really pirate programmes from
other planets. And it is true that scientific listening
posts have taped some mighty odd sounds from
space which could come from some sort of intel-
ligence, somewhere in the Universe.

»Back in September, 1953, viewers all over Eng-
land were amazed when their screens suddenly
carried the identification card and call letters of
television station KLEE, in Houston, Texas. A freak
occurrence? — that’s what the experts thought - -
until radio engineers tried to contact KLEE, thou-
sands of miles away across the Atlantic. »Station
KLEE«, they were told, »has been off the air for
all of three years, and since that time no KLEE
identification card has been shown«. Where had
that phantom picture been for three years? Why
did it appear in England? And how did it get back
from wherever it had been. Nobody knows. So if,
tonight, you should see an unidentified object on
your screen — — -«

To Ufologists, the idea of watching a blank tele-
vision screen for such phenomena is not so far-out
— in fact, it might prove an interesting experiment
for those of us who believe such things are pos-
sible. Coupled with a telepathic request to our
space friends, it might even produce results! That
the idea has some scientific backing is shown by
a recent article which appeared in the »Ottawa
Journal” viz:

»,,Live’ TV Coming from Outer Space?«

Salt Lake City (AP) — A distinguished British astro-
nomer, Dr. Fred Hoyle, speaks of the possibility
of »live« TV from outer space. And by »live« he
means people — outer space people, people who
may live on planets like ours on the other side of
the Milky Way. Hoyle thinks it’s highly probable
that such planets and people do exist. So do a !ot
of other scientists.

»They think some of the radio waves hitting the
earth right now contain messages from those people
and there is some scientific effort under way to
decipher these messages, to tune into those radio
waves, waves which would also transmit pictures.

»What could we see and hear on this »celestial«
television? Hoyle, in his new book, »Of Men and
Galaxies« (University of Washington Press), says

some of these outer space civilizations have evolved
further than we and would therefore be able to tell
us, for example, how to avoid a nuclear war«.

The Space Brothers Keep Their Word.

As predicted by the Space Brothers in earlier
issues of Topside, they are keeping their promise
to make themselves seen more and more by the
people of Earth. From the increased number of
reports of sightings and landings of UFOs all over
the world, there can be little doubt that our space
friends are now making an all-out effort to awaken
us to their reality, and it is becoming daily more
obvious that they are prepared to use every peace-
ful means within their considerable power to achieve
their mission of goodwill. Their purpose appears to
be two-fold: (1) To prevent a nuclear holocaust
which may not only destroy Planet Earth but also
produce dire results on the entire Solar System
and perhaps even further afield in Outer Space;
and (2) To enlighten their more backward Earth
Brothers as to the urgent necessity of widening
their horizons to encompass knowledge and practice
of Cosmic Brotherhood, and the realization that
they have moral obligations not only to their own
kind but to civilizations on other planets who may
have to suffer for Earth’s irresponsible actions.

If the powers-that-be on Earth continue to cover-
up and disregard the continued efforts of the Space
Brothers, then they may expect to receive even
more startling and dramatic visitations in the near
future.

CREDIT: — COURTESY OF »TOPSIDE« — JOUR-
NAL OF THE OTTAWA NEW SCIENCES CLUB.

OUR READERS MAY BE INTERESTED TO
KNOW UFO CONTACT IS SENT TO OVER
60 NATIONAL DELEGATES AND OTHERS
AT THE UNITED NATIONS IN NEW YORK,
BESIDES MANY HEADS OF STATE OF
COUNTRIES ALL OVER THE WORLD.

SHOULD OUR READERS WISH TO OFFER
POSITIVE HELP — FINANCIAL OR OTHER-
WISE — IN SPREADING THE TRUTH OF THE
UFO-CASE, THEN THAT HELP WILL BE
VERY WELCOME.

The Editors.

ufo contact 113

EDITORIAL...

"WE ARE NOT OPPOSED TO A COURT JESTER
on the green lawns of the Royal Palace, provided he
is not taken for an astronomical philosopher — —’’.

Here, with all the arrogance of the self-opinion-
ated, self-appointed judge, in words of ignorance,
mated with bigotry and begotten of an inflated ego-
tism, we see a small section of that vociferous but
often influential Press opinion which always swallows
before it chews.

The occasion was the much-publicised, much-criti-
cised audience of Queen Juliana of the Netherlands
accorded to one George Adamski of California,
U.S.A., at Il a.m. on May 18th 1959, at Soestdijk
Palace, near Utrecht, Holland.

The vociferous Press opinion in this instance was
of the Catholic People’s Party newspaper, ’’Die
Volkskrant’’.

We could imagine the same self-elevated journa-
list writing: "We are not opposed to a court jester
in the private apartments at the Vatican, provid-
ed — —”’, on another May day, of another II a.m. au-
dience, much more secret, of much more potential
significance, four years later, when Adamski was
received at the bed-side of the dying Pope John.

Of the one audience, with a gracious First Lady,
the world’s sensation tabloids went to town. Lacking
the meat of the occasion on which to feast their
readers they gave them the bones and the offal, and
in the process they soiled and besmirched their own
honourable profession.

The second audience was spared this treatment,
and still is.

And so we can perceive how some of George
Adamski’s meetings with the famous received the
full blast of publicity, whilst others, conducted in a
secret undercurrent of diplomacy peopled with silent
couriers and intercontinental briefings, are still, very
much, ’'classified”’.

Adamski was NEVER afraid of the scoffers and the
critics, still less of the faceless spokesmen in autho-
rity. With energy which had to be seen to be be-
lieved, with courage of conviction based in sure
knowledge of his own experiences, and with fortitude
distilled from the sweet and the sour of his support-
ers and his detractors, HE DIDN’T GIVE A DAMN.

He could have written ’’pot-boilers’” of space-
fiction in his sunny California, like many of his cont-
emporaries, making a fortune from the credulous.
This is shown by the fact that his books became
world best-sellers in many languages. Yet in 12 years
he only offered TWO AND A HALF BOOKS to the
general public. Does this seem like a man who is
"on the make?”

No. Instead he pushed and shoved his way into the,
many times, inhospitable climate of ’’expert’’ analysis
and clinical dissection, saying: ’’Here is my evid-
ence, here is my story — TAKE IT OR LEAVE IT!”

AND HE DIED, DOING JUST THAT.

What kept him going for so long? What kept the
flame so bright for those 12-13 long, bitter-sweet
years? His tremendous sense of humour? YES! His
many thousands of friends and supporters the world
over? YES, THESE ALSO!

But his faith in a DIVINE INTELLIGENCE and sure
knowledge of the existence and the helpful presence
friends from other planets in space, were the Rod
of good, spiritually- and physically-healthy human
and the Staff on which he leaned, until he died.

G.A.’s "’end’’ was but a beginning. And when he
graduated” others took over.

He knew, in those last few months, that it wouldn’t
be long. Already he knew those who were going to
carry on his work. And the Brothers and the Sisters,
those friends from across the seas of space, were
busy in their task of forging new links, reshaping
the pattern of their contacts with those close to
Adamski.

AS WITH GEORGE ADAMSKI, the Brothers cont-
inue to furnish evidence of their presence in our
skies. New films, startling in their clarity, are being
provided by G.A.’s Co-workers. New accounts of
recent contact with the men and women visiting us
are evidence of their continued interest in our wel-
fare.

Here, in this issue of UFO CONTACT, you will
see more photographic presentation of ’’Unidentified
Flying Objects’. In some strange fashion, by some
peculiar ’’co-incidence’’, another of G.A.’s_ close
associates is enabled to take startling movie-film
shots of objects in the sky. With this new evidence
we shall show, too, how Adamski’s successors are
STILL pushing the experts, STILL offering for exam-
ination photographic proof of "inexplicable phenom-
ena” in the skies above us.

There are always those who are ready to jeer and
deride. This is a peculiar facet of the human psycho-
logy which stems almost solely from ignorance. But,
thank God, there are those also who, in the face of
public intolerance and apathy, are able to stand out
from the rest and say of the pioneer: ’’Give the man
his chance, let the man have his say’.

As we have said a few words back, evidence is
still being provided of our extraterrestrial visitors’
presence on and above our planet. That this evid-
ence remains a puzzle, — or gives the impression, at
least, of remaining a puzzle — to competent ’’ex-
perts’’, despite public pronouncements made by the
head of Project Blue Book, the U.S.A.F.’s UFO
agency, that UFO’s are NOT from Outer Space,
("Evening Telegram’, San Bernadino, California,
February 15th 1967 — full report on Page 103, UFO
CONTACT, April issue), is shown here in the pages
of UFO CONTACT.

114 ufo contact

Once before, a gracious lady was willing, against
much advice, to listen to the sincere words of a man
who was still to battle for many years to come for
the truth which he propounded. We ask again for that
First Lady’s gracious attention to certain matters
which we believe, as in years gone by, will be of
interest to her, also today.

Our Open Letter we respectfully address to —

Her Majesty, Queen Juliana of the Netherlands.

An open Letter

SOESTDIJK PALACE,
SOESTDIJK,
HOLLAND.

To Her Majesty, Queen Juliana.
Your Majesty,

We venture to approach you on a matter which we
believe will be of some interest to you, the subject
being one of immense importance, bearing as it does
implications of a nature which might well affect in
the future every aspect of human endeavour on this
Earth.

The subject of which we speak has once before
been brought to Your Majesty’s attention, and, we
understand, received careful consideration; in fact,
it is in the belief that Your Majesty has shown more
than usual interest that we make this approach to-
day.

May we, with respect, ask you to cast your mind
back 8 years. In May of 1959, Your Majesty was
pleased to request the presence of Mr. George
Adamski, of California, at Soestdijk Palace. Mr.
Adamski was at that time on a world lecture-tour.

This gentleman had an unusual story to tell. He
spoke of visitations to this planet by human beings
from outer space. He spoke of kind human beings
who had travelled in their spaceships, often called
“flying saucers”, from their home planets in our
solar system, from Venus, from Saturn, Mars and
others.

Their understanding was far ahead of our own,
their sincere interest in our welfare was part of a
philosophy of brotherhood and love for all of the
Creator’s Works.

This was George Adamski’s story.

In 1959, the subject of flying saucers was consid-
ered by the majority to be laughable. Any attempt
to discuss the possibility of beings technologically
superior to us, visiting Earth in space craft travelling
at fantastic speeds, was to dismiss all the scientific
concepts of the day. Indeed, in 1959, scientists were

JUNE 1967.

only beginning to accept the remote possibility of
"some form’’ of life, — and a one-cell life, at that, -
existing anywhere at all outside of Earth. And any
suggestion that intelligent beings existed who had
progressed past the stages of wars and poverty and
racial intolerance, was to speak of Heaven itself.

Now, in 1967, many things have changed. The
majority still laughs, yes. But one sees in the ever-
expanding minority a level of radical but intelligent
thought which would have been branded a "’heresy”’
against the whole Establishment just a few years
ago. With our own greatly-increased space activity
and the near-proximity of an Earthman’s landing on
the Moon, ideas have had to change along with the
immense changes in the means of travel.

What modern science has yet to discover, how-
ever, is an antidote to the enormously swollen ego
of ’’Earth-man’’ which has gained nothing from the
discoveries of Galileo other than a list of changed
astronomical data and some very basic facts con-
cerning the solar system in which we live.

What they have not yet learned from the ’’here-
tical” revelations of Galileo is that scientific ’’fact”’
of today is not necessarily scientific ’’fact’ of to-
morrow; that they, too, these modern scientists, may
be called upon — and perhaps very soon — to change
all previous concepts of astronomical physics and
to accept that Earth-man is not, after all, alone in
the Universe.

One of the pioneers in this school of thought was
George Adamski. Since his passing, in April 1965,
others have come forward to carry on his work.

Madam, on several occasions in the years since
1959, Mr. Adamski was given the opportunity of phot-
ographing some of these space craft on movie-film.
These films have been shown widely in the United
States and in certain countries in Europe. They have
been viewed by persons in authority, including ex-
perts in many fields, as well as by millions of the
general public by way of television.

The extraterrestrial human beings of whom Mr.
Adamski spoke are still operating in the same patt-
ern. Several of his helpers have been privileged to
meet these people. New colour movies have been
taken of their ships, on occasion with the deliberate
connivance of the pilots of the craft concerned.

An American lady, Mrs. Madeleine Rodeffer, and
two Germanborn, naturalised Americans, Mr. and
Mrs. Fred Steckling, have been privileged not only
to meet these friends from other planets but they
have also been enabled to photograph the movement
of their craft on colour-film.

All of these films have been viewed by persons
in authority, including photographic experts of
the U.S. National Aeronautics and Space Agency,
(NASA), and they have yet to be faulted.

Madam, the reason for our approach in this Open
Letter is this. Having heard from Mr. Adamski first-
hand of his experiences, would Your Majesty care
once more to hear of the visitations of the Brothers
and Sisters who befriended him? They have made
themselves known to others; there are courageous

ufo contact 139

messages to trusted UFO workers on Earth, and
for other specific purposes. Most of us have read
accounts written by people claiming to have recei-
ved messages, both garbled and clear, from the
Space Brothers via ham radios, tensor-coil experi-
ments, etc., or of seeing spacemen or other uniden-
tified phenomena on their television screens. There
was one amusing story of a man who fell asleep
while watching a late, late movie on television and
awoke several hours later to find himself staring
at a strange, other-world face on his TV screen!
He was so scared, he snapped off the TV set —
and sold it the next day! Then there are cases of
people hearing messages and celestial music on
their tape recorders. Only recently, Fate magazine
published a letter received from Myra Dee Hina of
Sacramento, California, in which she stated that
while attempting to record a new song she had
created with the help of numerology, i.e., »notes
forming the vibration of each word«, on a brand-
new tape bought at a local store, she proceeded
to pick the notes out on an organ and sing them
on to the tape. She goes on to say: »l then went
to turn off the tape recorder and found it had stop-
ped. | reset it and played the notes over again.
When | returned to the recorder to stop it, some
sort of a force field seemed to appear. | could
see it and feel it with my hands. It gave me the
same sensation as if | held two repelling magnets.
Wondering why such a condition existed, | stood
and let the machine run on. When | no longer felt
the force field, | ran the tape back to replay. My
voice was clear, the notes were clear — but | was
shocked beyond words when a beautiful orchestra
began playing the very theme | had created. it
lasted a long period, over 35 minutes. It is possible
that the recorder somehow picked up music out of
the air. There was no other instrument in the house,
the tape was new and | ran it around 12 o'clock
midnight. I’ve tried to repeat this strange incident
several times, but nothing has happened. In addi-
tion to the music on the tape, a voice speaks in
a language | never heard before. Several persons
who have listened to the tape say they have a weird
feeling while it is playing«.

A Warning Via Ham Radio.

While, even with an open mind, we cannot, un-
derstandably, vouch for the veracity of all these
claims, we can quote a couple of experiences of
this nature which happened to our founder, the
late Wilbert B. Smith, during his long and intensive
study of the UFO Mystery.. WBS, as most of you
know, was first and foremost a scientist, and he
never accepted anything without careful checks and
cross-checks and only by this method was he rea-
sonably sure of his ground. But undoubtedly, he
received clear-cut messages and confirmations on
a variety of scientific and philosophical matters
from his space friends, the »Boys from Topside«,
through a number of different media. One of these

sources was a local ham radio operator who, it
must be clearly stressed, knew little if anything
about Mr. Smith’s work or scientific experiments
and most of the messages he received for Wilbert
Smith, on an unidentified waveband, were complete-
ly unintelligible to him — although they made a lot
of sense to WBS.

By this means and with the usual, requested con-
firmation from other sources, Wilbert Smith received
a lot of invaluable guidance in his scientific work.
The most dramatic incident, however, occurred when
WBS and a small working party of the then Ottawa
Flying Saucer Club were preparing to test out an
experimental machine they had built. Just prior to
this test, the Boys from Topside broke into the
ham radio operator’s listening, blanking out all
other stations and repeating insistently that they
had an urgent message for Wilbert Smith which
the operator was to pass on to him without delay —
and this he did. The message, couched in scientific
terms, might be translated into layman’s language
as saying that a certain flywheel in the experimental
machine would not stand the stress of the r.m.p.
about to be placed on it and that it would shatter
under the strain; precaution should be taken. Hee-
ding this advice, WBS and his co-workers built a
protective wooden covering around the machine,
after which they set it in motion and, as predicted,
the flywheel shattered, embedding the wooden
boards with its shrapnel!

Intervention on a Tape Recording.

Another strange experience occurred during an
exchange of tape recording letters between WBS
and another UFO worker in the U.S. At the time,
WBBS was in possession of certain scientific data
which the Boys from Topside had asked him to
keep confidential for the time being. Inadvertently,
WBS, more by implication than direct statement,
let slip a few clues to this scientific problem in
a tape-letter to his colleague. A week or so later,
he received the tape back from his friend, with a
message asking if he would fill in the blank spaces
on the tape. Puzzled, WBS examinod the tape care-
fully and played it over, only to discover that in
the places where he had let slip the teil-tale clues,
the sound had been neatly erased and there was a
slightly sticky substance on the tape in these areas!
The only possible conclusion he could reach was
that it was the work of the Boys from Topside.

Here then, are two authentic cases of the Space
Brothers using our electronic equipment for a speci-
fic purpose.

Use of Television.

Recently, the English magazine »Week-End« car-
ried the following article, and while it is written in
a humorous, tongue-in-cheek vein, its writer may
have been a lot closer to the truth than he imagi-
ned! To quote: »Tonight you will probably sit down

138 ufo contact

photosynthetic process to produce at least simple
plant forms.

"The significance of my findings, if correct’, Dr.
Johnson declared, "is that a case for life chemistry
in space can not only be inferred but the end pro-
duct can be looked upon as a form of life similar
to that on earth”.

Johnson made his discoveries by observing the
spectral lines of light absorption of interstellar dust.
He found that the dust absorbed light at a certain
range of wavelength.

Identifying an element or compound by spectral
information is similar to identifying a human by his
fingerprints.

It has been known that star-light contains many
colors. Scientists also know that molecules or atoms
in the path of star-light are capable of absorbing a
part of it.

This means that individual molecules can be ident-
ified positively by the particular spectral portion of
the light they absorb on a one-to-one basis.

IN MILLIONS.

Previous like studies of spectral lines indicated
the presence of hydrocarbons. But since the comb-
inations of known hydrocarbon compounds extends
into the millions, further extensive study was required
to identify the major components of dust from this
spectral information.

Random testing of the possible hydrocarbon comp-
onents of the interstellar dust would take several
lifetimes. By systematic elimination of possibilities,
Dr. Johnson reduced the field to porphyrins and
carbotenoids, which are closely associated with
chlorophyll. He compared the absorption band spec-
tra of these substances in laboratory conditions sim-
ulating the extra-terrestrial environments of the dust
and found that they matched.

Further investigation through both spectroscopic
studies and lasar research at the Electro-Optical
Systems revealed the substance in question to be
chlorophyll.

If some of this dust should reach a planet like
Mars, could the chlorophyll photosynthesize?

"We have indications that life started here (on
earch) from outside’, Dr. Johnson declared. ’’The
same thing could happen there’”’.

To illustrate the point, Dr. Johnson said he cond-
ucted some experiments on rocks estimated to be
4/2 billion years old. He found porphyrins, a ’’skele-
ton” form of chlorophyll.

Dr. Johnson speculated that the same mechanism —
condensation of dust into meteors, which are then
attracted to planets — can be at work now as well as
in the past when earth was born.

f
Credit: — Mrs. Merna Lindermayor,
Can Bernadino, California.

The space brothers- and
Earth’s electronic
equipment

Unavoidable Interference.

One of the commonest occurrences indicating the
close presence of a UFO is the unavoidable inter-
ference with Earth’s radio, electrical and electronic
equipment, believed to be brought about by the
different force field in which the UFO operates.
Temporarily stalled cars, »dead« radios, distorted
television screens and disrupted electronic equip-
ment are among the features most frequently met with
in aclose encounter with a flying saucer. One of our
correspondents in Westford, Mass., U.S.A., where
there has been a record number of sightings this
year, tells us that when a UFO passes near her
home, a most extraordinary pattern of horizontal
lines of small vees’s (thus: vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv) ap-
pears on her television screen and that frequently
when she goes outside to investigate, there is the
culprit UFO! Included among the many reports of
the increased world-wide UFO activity in recent
months are typical ones such as the report from
Azores published July 11 which reads: »Flying Ob-
ject Stops Watches. A spokesman for Santa Maria
Airport claimed today that a mysterious flying ob-
ject apparently stopped all electro-magnetic watches
at the airport when it flew slowly over the island
yesterday. He said a white cylindrical object was
seen flying slowly in a north-westerly direction at
a height of 33,000 feet«. Another report from Can-
berra, Australia, published soon after Mariner I
was photographing Mars, reads: ’’Did Mysterious
Object Distort Mars Signals? A mysterious glowing
object — hovering near Canberra Airport while the
U.S. Mariner space probe was taking pictures of
Mars — has baffled experts in Canberra. Six members
of the traffic control tower crew said the object
hung suspended at about 5,000 feet for 40 minutes.
It disappeared when an air force plane was sent
out to identify it. Experts now are wondering if it
was coincidence that the object was sighted shortly
before nearby Tidninbilla tracking station was sched-
uled to pick up Mariner signals. The station had
unusual difficulty in locking on to Mariner at the
time«.

Deliberate Control.

It is believed that most of the aforegoing inci-
dents are more or less of an accidental nature. But
there is steadily-mounting evidence over the years
that our space visitors are able to and actually
do use our electronic equipment to make _ their
presence known to their earth brothers, to convey

ufo contact 115

people still who battle against great odds for what
they know to be right.

We believe that, with Your Majesty’s approval,
further evidence can be produced for your consider-
ation which will help greatly your understanding of
these matters, thereby encouraging others to seek
the truth of these visitations from outer space. It is
our sincere belief that there is far too much at stake
for the world to continue to supress or ignore news
of events of such magnitude.

Should Your Majesty so desire, George Adamski’s
friends would be honoured to tell their own stories
and show their own films in Your Majesty’s presence.

With respect,
Sincerely
The Editors.
*

The evidence of the
quiet contacts

by RONALD CASWELL.

’THEY’LL NEVER GET CLOSE ENOUGH when
I’ve got this in my hand, you know, Ronald’, said
Fred with some conviction, looking down at the
gleaming object he held on his knee. He had a
slightly rueful smile on his face. He reminded me of
a youngish Bob Hope in looks except that his nose
was not so sharp and his face a little more rounded.
"It’s a power zoom lens, see. It’s fully automatic. —
They know that if | get them on this, NO-ONE will
be able to deny it’.

We sat near to the open French window of the
lounge with the sun streaming in, | on the comfort-
able old settee, Fred on a highbacked chair, one
knee crossed over the other, looking thoughtfully at
his own fingers idly adjusting the lens-piece of the
cine-camera.

May Morlet was somewhere in the house, probably
ringing through to some of the guests we were ex-
pecting later in the day — or maybe she had driven
into Antwerp with Ingrid, Fred’s wife, who had a
hairdressing appointment that afternoon. Tomorrow
we were to run through to The Hague to meet some
of our Dutch friends who were arranging Fred’s lect-
ure and film-show there.

Hans was about somewhere in the big old house.
He had arranged for a few days’ leave and travelled
down from Copenhagen some days before. Hans is
Major Petersen of the Royal Danish Air Force, organ-
iser of the European and Asian sections of IGAP.
He may never live it down, but, much-travelled man
that he is, he had left his passport back home! He
gave a huge chuckle as he described to us how he
had managed to talk himself across the German
frontier. Luckily his wife had now sent the passport
on.

| had flown across to Brussels a few days before,
on September 1st, and drank coffee in the airport
lounge with Pat Morlet, May’s elder son, whilst we

waited an hour or so for the Steckling’s plane to
come in from Washington, via New York and Co-
logne. They were flying LUFTHANSA.

Patrick had them paged as the Cologne flight be-
gan to stream into the arrival bay, everyone on the
look-out for the baggage coming up on the wide
moving belt from below. Mrs. Suzy Peeters, May’s
lifelong friend, and Treasurer for the Belgian groups,
arrived in her tiny Volksvagen and smilingly greeted
us, together with Philip, May’s younger son, who had
been filming the aircraft from the airport roof. We
were all old friends. Suzy was to help with extra
transport back to Antwerp.

We looked at the people who were coming over
to the inquiries desk; and the floor clattered with
luggage-loaded trollies as the passengers came away
from Customs and began passing through the barr-
iers, some hurrying, some looking lost, others being
greeted enthusiastically by waiting friends. The huge
hall rang with sound, and above all were the dis-
embodied voices speaking loftily from many hidden
loudspeakers. We wondered what Fred and Ingrid
would look like.

A neat-looking couple with a boy of about seven
spoke to one of the clerks at the inquiries desk.
They turned and faced us as the man pointed our
way.

Fred was about 5 feet 10, Ingrid about 5-7. Glenn
was looking around him at the high roof of the foyer.
Ingrid was an attractive young woman with natural
blonde hair, slim and wearing a white, two-piece suit.
She did not look the type one would expect to see
at a special private meeting of members of the
United States Senate Aeronautics and Space Comm-
ittee.

Fred seemed a rather serious-faced young man.
Both were in their early thirties. Both were German-
born, naturalised Americans. They had lived in Ca-
nada for some time prior to their arrival in the
States. Only little Glenn’s voice was totally Ameri-
can.

So this was Fred Steckling, the young man who
had not wished to ’’take over’, as George Adamski
had hoped during the last few days of his illness in
Washington. D.C. As Fred said, no-one could take
G.A.’s place. So it was left at that. And George had
died, not knowing. Or did he know, that wise old
man?

Madeleine and Fred and Ingrid had just gone on
working as before, only much harder. Telling G.A.’s
story, showing his films, bothering the officials on
Capitol Hill. And now they had Madeleine Rodeffer’s
film to show as well, the amazing close-up shots of
the scout-craft hovering over her ’’front yard”, which
was in reality, the long sloping, grassy bank running
from her house down to the road. At the most, a
hundred feet in the air, level with the tall tree-tops.

Madeleine and Ingrid had faced a chilly reception
committee at the private Senate hearing of January
1965, a couple of months before George died; and
at the end of the showing of George’s film sequen-
ces and a 45-minute verbal barrage from some sarc-

116 ufo contact

astic senators, Madeleine, who had worked in a Gov-
ernment office for many years, just stood up and
told them that she wouldn’t like to be in THEIR
shoes when people found out what was being kept
from them.

Did they think the public was blind?

Many had seen the planes chasing the saucers.
Even children.

And Madeleine had come out of the committee-
room seething with anger. A few weeks afterwards
she had filmed a scout-ship over her own ’’front
yard”’.

Fred loosened up a little as we sped along the
road Brussels-Antwerp. Patrick, who studied at
Brussels University, and who himself lectured on
flying saucers, was a good driver, but fast!

"Madeleine was at the airport as we left Washing-
ton. Oh, and Linda, her friend, was with her. You
know, that young woman who had some sightings.
She’s written to you, | think. A nice girl. There were
two Brothers standing back a bit in the crowd. They
weren't with Madeleine. Maybe she knew they were
there.”

He went on talking about some of the Brothers he
had met. Ingrid joined in occasionally, her eyes
bright and shining.

"Oh, Ronald!’ she said, in her German-accented
American, drawling the words. "If you only could
meet them! There is this wonderful feeling of good-
ness that seems to reach out to you.”

Fred’s rather serious face relaxed a little as he
spoke. One could see he was no fanatic. Fred Steck-
ling and Ingrid were not money-grabbing ’’contact-
ees’’ making a fast buck. They spoke quietly, but
forcefully at times. Perhaps Fred could not quite
shake off this feeling of having to convince someone
all the time.

Ronald,” he said, after a rather long, somewhat
tired silence. They’d been travelling for many, many
hours. ’’Ronald, do you know, it’s just as if they have
our frequencies. | had a birthday a while back —”
Ingrid was about to burst in with wife-like enthusiasm
but Fred’s voice stopped her. ’’l had a birthday a
while back,"’ Fred went on. ’’Ingrid and | were wat-
ching T.V. | don’t remember the show. Suddenly —”
and again Ingrid was bursting with agreement,
”_ suddenly it went doot-di-di-doot-doot, on the T.V.
just like that, maybe ten or a dozen times. Doot-di-
di-doot-doot. Ingrid and | just looked at each other —
and then we both DASHED out onto the porch.”

Patrick swerved among the traffic on a bumpy
patch of road.

"There over the house was the saucer. It just
swayed there, back and forward. Then it seemed to
swing down low as the light showed from the porch
and then shot off over in the direction of Washing-
ton Airport.”

Ingrid couldn’t hold herself any longer. ’’And do
you know, Ronald!’ she burst in, Madeleine had the
same thing happen on her birthday! Linda and some
more friends were just being seen off from the house
and they called out to Madeleine to look. And there

was this red, glowing light swaying over the house!”’

Fred smiled knowingly.

"You can bet, they’ve got our wave-lengths!”” he
said.

As we looked out at May’s long lily-pond in the
spacious lawn, the big, leafy trees almost overhang-
ing the house and splashing the ground with shadow,
Fred gave a little laugh to himself and glanced up
at me. He was so often serious, especially when he
talked to the people who gathered at May’s house,
guests, reporters etc, — it was nice to see him with
a, somewhat twisted, grin. There were no gimmicks
with Fred.

”| saw a saucer close overhead some while ago. —
There are a LOT of them around that area — | had
my camera with me, this camera — and | ran off some
film and | felt so gosh-darned pleased with myself!
D’you know something? | left the dust-cap on!”

He told me of his talks with the Brothers.

"D’you know, Ronald, when you’re with them, you
don't ASK questions. You don’t think of it. You just
listen. It’s as if you are not meant to ask of things
maybe they don’t want you to know.”

Fred bit his lip thoughfully.

"One of them | can see several times a week. |
know where he’s working. | can tell you what sort
of work he does, but not where.” Fred told me.

"It's only once in a while we have a chance to
talk. Maybe over a cup of coffee some place.”

He paused, then went on.

"This one’s from Venus.”

Fred’s trip over had been delayed. Hans and | had
had to change our bookings. Fred had told me on
the trip up from the airport how someone, — he didn’t
know who — had contacted the bank where Fred had
arranged credit for the trip.

"| have to do it on the instalments,” he said. "A
cook doesn’t earn all that much money.”’ Fred works
at an hotel in Virginia, near where he lives.

The strange thing was that Fred had previously
had credit arrangements with the same bank,. and
had had no bother. Maybe someone had tried to stop
his trip to Europe. It had taken several days to clear
up the matter.

He was speaking first in Antwerp, staying with
May for some days, then The Hague, then Frankfurt
and Mannheim, then in Austria — Vienna and Linz —
then on to West Berlin for the last six days to stay
with his family.

Whether Fred was helped with money at the Ger-
man or Austrian lectures, | don’t know. | know he
received nothing in Antwerp and Den Haag, except
hospitality from good friends. That certainly did not
pay the Stecklings fare across the Atlantic.

Fred’s first lecture was on the evening of our arr-
ival in Antwerp, at May Morlet’s home. Of the 50-60
in the audience, which included reporters, | noticed
a young woman. | shall not describe her.

Later that night, in fact at 3.30 in the morning, —
we had sat talking, all of May’s house-guests, until
the small hours, as we were to do every night of our
visit — | walked with Hans Petersen around some

ufo contact 137

There is no doubt that a great number of the
meteoric falls actually are remains of ’’natural’’
objects in space — but not by any means al! of them.

No doubt also, some of the falls of ice are from
aircraft de-icing or breaking off by some other
means; the theory about ice from the toilets is very
doubtful, but even if we give this theory a certain
chance, then it still explains only a very small part
of the total number of reported falls.

Until the Rocket-age’s attempts to explain condit-
ions in the Space around us began, a remarkable
attitude prevailed within certain scientific circles in
regard to that Space.

Earth was the navel of the Cosmos, around which
and about which everything turned. The moon and
the planets and the stars were hung in the sky for
Earth’s sake, and between all the bodies outside of
Earth’s atmosphere was this great empty Space, in
which was to be found — absolutely nothing.

But the rockets told another story — they had been
out there. We can say then, that now it is proven
that Space is not empty. Among other things, dust
has been registered. And it has become dusty in the
space-capsule when the capsule door has_ stood
open.

It is proven also, that certain chemical reactions
can, in the course of a few seconds, form solid
matter. (Einstein).

As all the planets are born in the same Cosmos,
this means to say that the same elements or units
which make up the "'creation’’ are to be found in
invisible form in this so-called empty Space. It
“only” needs the right chemical reaction to take
place for the whole to take solid form and to build
up as planets, comets, meteorites or ice — or for that
matter, as many other things.

It is therefore quite plain to see that science can,
and must, soon add a new chapter to that book about
the ’’factual’”’ conditions in Space, which it is writing
at this time. In this book’ it will be stated that,
under certain conditions, solid matter is formed in
empty Space — as well as much else — matter that
can later fall onto this planet or others as ’’shooting-
stars’ or as ice from an airplane’s toilet.

And it will be enormously difficult, — yes, almost
impossible, — to differentiate between what are rem-
ains of solid bodies, such as planets, comets or
asteroids, and what is produced by some other
means. One might point to evidence of bacteria, but
this just will not do, because bacteria can be gath-
ered up from anywhere in the Cosmos. For example,
our planet, just the same as other planets, has,
during its journey through space, trailed behind itself
a long tail of dust and bacteria. This dust and these
bacteria are caught up at some time or another by
other heavenly bodies, in the same manner that we
collect dust and bacteria from other worlds.

In fact, we need not go to all the great amount of
trouble that we do, to sterilize the space-ships and
probes which are to be sent up; — our bacteria has
long been present on our sister planets and many

other planets, just as ’’their bacteria’ has been a
long, long while living with us.

Thus there exists great unexplored areas of res-
earch with which science can come to grips and
learn from; and when, finally, these are explained,
the next natural step will be to learn how one can
come to live without being ’’infected’’ by bacteria.

We are on the way; but for a while yet we shall
be “infected” by bacteria, and believe that we can
“infect’’ our sister planets’ inhabitants with our bac-
teria. For a while yet we shall only find meteorites
that originate from planets, comets or asteroids, and
ice which falls from the toilet-systems of airplanes.

October 1966.
-*-

Here, in a report just received from the United
States, is an important break-through into the area
of research mentioned in the afore-going article. With
precision timing, we now perceive that ’— through
condensation this dust eventually forms meteorites
which are dense enough to be attracted to a pla-
net —”.

From: Los Angeles ’’Herald-Examiner’, Sunday,
January 22nd 1967.

»L. A. Man finds Life in Space«

THERE IS LIFE IN SPACE!

Chlorophyll, key compound of life on earth, exists
abundantly in outer space.

These findings have been reported to a gathering
of experts on Astronomy and Biodynamics meeting
at the University of California at Berkeley by Dr.
Fred Johnson of Electro-Optical Systems in Pasa-
dena.

Based on his findings, Dr. Johnson told the Berke-
ley colloquium the possibility that man is not alone
in the universe is excellent.

The physicist, astronomer and biochemist told the
Berkeley sessions, which opened Friday, that after
13 years of research he had been able to identify
interstellar dust and had found it is composed larg-
ely of the solid molecular substance chlorophyll and
not ice or graphite as had been previously believed.

"There is no reason to believe that we on this
planet are unique’, Dr. Johnson told the Herald-
Examiner. ’’There is very good evidence, on the
other hand, that there may be similar forms of life
throughout the universe’”’.

Dr. Johnson reported that although interstellar dust
is very small with each grain having an average
density of 10 to 26 grams per cubic centimeter, he
speculates that through condensation this dust even-
tually forms meteorites which are dense enough to
be attracted to a planet.

SIMPLE PLANTS.
These meteorites, he said, then deposit the life
substance chlorophyll and, as on earth, undergo the

136 ufo contact

the principles involved in weight-distribution and
surface manipulation, i.e. expert engineers producing
the revolutionary Hovercraft.

"Some of my readers will have been way ahead
of me in these past assessments and no doubt will
have anticipated my next intention. Yet others will
be a trifle impatient that the following correlation
should be made. But | must stress, | try very hard
not to be biased, science is far more interesting
left as it is. Therefore | am sincere in my next anal-
ysis. | trust the reader will be, too. | have purposely
chosen the following title for the evidence which |
hope may help shed some truer light on one who
may be a very maligned man.” UNQUOTE.

Yes, the ’’very maligned man” is George Adamski.

12 years ago Leonard G. Cramp produced the
orthographic projections which showed how young
Stephen Darbishire’s ’’Coniston’”’ saucer, as photo-
graphed, was identical in shape and proportion to
Adamski’s classic ''scout-craft’’.

Today, in his book "Piece For A Jig-saw’’, Mr.
Cramp produces startling evidence of a highly-tech-
nical nature which shows how, following along purely
engineering principles as a result of analyses of
hundreds of reported saucer-sightings, with accomp-
anying detail of manoeuvre and flight patterns, he
arrives at the ideal form, in all respects, for a visit-
ing ’’saucer’. The saucer he finally produces, after
progressive line-drawings and photographs by the
score, is the Adamski scout-craft.

In his concluding chapter, not only does the author
quote details of engineering data provided by Adam-
ski in his controversial books, but Mr. Cramp con-
fesses that, until the time of writing this last chapter,
he had not yet read completely Adamski’s ’’Inside
The Space Ships’! Realising perhaps certain read-
ers’ scepticism about this belated admission, Mr.
Cramp goes on to describe points outlined in that
book concerning Adamski’s alleged trips in the
scout-craft, whereby his (Cramp’s) own scientifically
arrived-at data receives startling corroboration!

“At this juncture | can almost hear many an Adam-
ski sceptic breathing a sigh of incredulity, hardly
able to believe that | should dare to include such
material in a semi-technical work of this nature.”
Unquote.

With many detailed international sighting reports
analysed scientifically, with his own photographed
experiments showing the intensive study he has made
of all aspects of saucer’ manoeuvres and flight, and
accompanied by scores of finely-executed line-draw-
ings, Leonard Cramp provides food for thought for
all those of an open mind.

Here, biased or un-biased as we may seem, we
would like to recommend to other biased and unb-
iased UFO researchers one of the best flying saucer
contributions since "Inside The Space Ships’! That
the author is not biased can be witnessed by the
360 pages of this book which are not about George
Adamski.

In expressing the hope that certain UFOlogist

sceptics will not now refrain from purchasing and
reading this excellent book, we would like to conc-
lude with an excerpt from the summing-up by Leo-
nard G. Cramp himself.

"Out of the confusion and the shadow surrounding
this most enigmatic of flying saucer contact stories,
emerges one or two, but nevertheless very important
facts.

(a) Adamski type saucers are not uncommon

among UFO reports.

(b) On purely engineering grounds the configurat-
ion of the "scout ship’ offers the best all-
round compromise which could embody the
functions required by the gravitational propul-
sion theory.

(c) Adamski’s description of inside a saucer is
not inconsistent with the theory, on the cont-
rary, theory seems to support it.

(d) Thus on these grounds alone | for one feel
inclined to accept the first part of his exper-
ience as fact, and in my opinion any incons-
istencies which appear in his subsequent

claims are insufficient to invalidate the prev-
ious conclusions.”

"PIECE FOR A JIG-SAW” — 27 sh. 6 d.
SOMERTON PUBLISHING COMPANY,
COWES. ISLE OF WIGHT.

Miscellaneous

Out of the clear, blue sky
by MAJOR H. C. PETERSEN.

WE ALL KNOW of accounts of objects which,
during the past couple of hundred years, have been
reported as falling down from the sky, — and, often
enough, from a clear, cloudless sky.

Scientists and other experts have sought to ex-
plain such ’’falls’’ as meteorites, meteors, or — now-
adays — as something in connection with flying, ato-
mic tests or the like.

In the book "Le Matin des Magiciens”’, by the
Frenchmen, Louis Pauwels and Jacques Bergier, vol-
ume One gives reference to 40,000 notations of falls
of such extraordinary things.

If we concern ourselves solely with two groups of
objects — meteorites and ice — then we find ourselves
in an area where science and various other expert
sources are quite positive in their conclusions.

Meteoric stones originate from comets and planets
which have disintegrated, or from larger or smaller
asteroids. The ice comes from airplanes — either
formed outwardly or from the toilet.

ufo contact 117

quiet, deserted, leafy avenues near to May’s house.
Hans had suggested a walk before turning in. It was
our first opportunity to talk alone together since our
meeting in Denmark three or four weeks before.

He also wanted to tell me something. About a
young lady of rather special appearance who had,
during the course of the evening, moved out of the
audience and was sitting on a settee very close to
the speaker’s table. Just before the guests left, —
some of them were unknown to May Morlet — the
young woman spoke a few words with Hans.

”"Ron’, said Hans, "| am wondering about that
young woman.”

Some days after Fred and Ingrid and Glenn had
left Vienna for Berlin, for avery short family re-union,
the Co-workers received a letter from our Austrian
friend and Co-worker, Dora Bauer, who told us of the
lectures Fred had given in Vienna and Linz. She also
wrote that Fred had told her of two space people,
a Brother and a Sister, who were at May’s house on
that first evening - -

And going through Germany he had filmed a
strange formation in the sky. It was on September
7th 1966.

In February this year | received photostats of corr-
espondence and some still pictures from the film
that Fred Steckling took whilst travelling by train
between Mannheim and Frankfurt, in West Germany.
The stills he had obtained by photographing from
the screen, he said. He did not dare have the stills
professionally made. (Both George Adamski and Ma-
deleine Rodeffer have had "’accidents’’ happen to
film in the past. A greater part of the Rodeffer close-
up saucer film was stolen from an hotel room when
G.A. was taking the original to be copied. Copies
of his own film loaned to T.V. net-works and others
have returned badly disfigured with chemicals, "with
great regret —’’)

A letter from Fred to Thomas G. Corbin, Major-
General U.S.A.F. Director Legislative Liaison, Dep-
artment of the Air Force, Washington, D.C., read:

"Dear Sir,

While with my family in Germany September 7,
1966, | had the rare opportunity to film a Armada”
of about 40 to 50 UFO’s apearing and disappearing
in the middle of the blue sky.

The 23 feet of Kodakcolour film were taken out
of an open window of a speeding express train,
Mannheim-Frankfurt, approximately at 11.40 a.m.

My camera is an automatic 8 mm Revere power
zoom, 30 mm lens. The objects, which can be seen,
look like white cigarettes on the motion-picture be-
hind trees, railroad stations and powerlines, which
were flying by and blocking their sight on occasions
while filming. This rules out light reflections from
any excusable source.

| would be willing indeed to show this rare film
(personally) to Air Force officials here in Washing-
ton D.C., if they are interested.

Any Monday would be fine for showing the film,
| am looking forward to your answer,

sincerely, Fred Steckling.”

UNQUOTE.

Similar letters were sent to Senator Clinton P.
Anderson, of the Senate Space and Aeronautics
Committee, and to Dr. Paul D. Lowman Jnr. at the
National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
(NASA).

The reply from Dr. Lowman reads: (see inside back
cover).

"NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE
ADMINISTRATION
GODDARD SPACE FLIGHT CENTER
Greenbelt, Maryland 20771

FILE.17232

Mr. Fred Steckling, Feb. 20 1967

Alexandria, Virginia 22312.

Dear Mr. Steckling:

Thank you very much for your letter and for your
offer to show us your film. | am not really qualified
to pass judgement on it, but it would be good to
have the people here at Goddard who are, look at
it. May | suggest, then, that you give Mr. Penn Ste-
vens, phone — -, a call. He will make an appoint-
ment for you to come out to Goddard and show the
Photographic Branch and me your film. Unfortunat-
ely we have no 8 mm projector here, so | must ask
you to bring your own. Thank you again for your
offer.

Sincerely yours,

signed. Paul D. Lowman, Jr.
Geochemistry Laboratory
Laboratory for Theoretical Studies.”
UNQUOTE.

Of the visit, which took place in Building A.l. at
10.30 a.m. on February 27th 1967, Fred said this:

”"_ We took Madeleine along so the 22 NASA off-
icials could see G.A.’s and her film, too. They seem-
ed to be quite impressed, but would not make an
open statement concerning the film, naturally. The
2 hour meeting took place in Building A.I. They
treated us very nice and seemed to know much more
of what we had to show and tell. One thing they
said, however, and that is concerning Dr. Hynek. His
swamp-gas explanations are nonsense, we were told.

"But despite the evidence of the 3 films they still
would like to have more positive proof, we were told,
for it still does not prove these ships to be extra-
terrestrial, as one official put it. However, he was
not able to tell us just where these strange crafts
come from otherwise. But they were quite impressed
about the exact formation of the many ships on the
film of Sept. 7th. 66. Reflection, any fake, and cloud
formation, including Skyriders, was ruled out. It left
only 23 feet of UFO's.

"They said nothing about G.A.’s film and on Ma-
deleine’s they commented, — the ship is smaller, and
anticipated it to be about 27 feet in diameter. They
were interested in how far the trees in the back-

118 ufo contact

ground were and all in all said, to be convinced that
what we had shown them are ships of extraterrestrial
origin they needed more positive proof or evidence.
One person came up with the scout being a volks-
wagen, you know how they have to make jokes. But
we were treated very nice and in respect, — one
person said to Ingrid, you have something there, —
meaning the films —

"| could see that they had much knowledge, but
could not give themselves away. They did not rid-
icule us, nor the films, nor the whole UFO idea. |
did not go to NASA to convince them, but to cons-
ult them.”

He added:

"This meeting with NASA was a different matter
altogether than the Senate Space committee 2 years
ago with Madeleine and Ingrid, where they received
more "Hell’’ than anything else —”

UNQUOTE.

On March 20th, Fred sent me a photostat letter
from the UFO spokesman at the Pentagon in Wa-
shington D.C. (see back pages)

"DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
Washington 20330

Office Of The Secretary
Mar 17 1967
Dear Mr. Steckling:

Your letter concerning your unidentified flying
object (UFO) film finally reached my office — -— -
Office of Information for Project Blue Book, the Air
Force UFO program.

The Air Force would be very interested in review-
ing your film. If you would get in touch with me at
the Pentagon, we will arrange a showing for any
Monday which is convenient for you. My number is
0----or0----—

Thank you for offering to show your film; | am
looking forward to hearing from you.

Sincerely

signed. George P. Freeman, Jr.
Lt. Colonel, USAF.

Chief, Civil Branch

Community Relations Division
Office of Information.

Mr. Fred Steckling,

Alexandria, Virginia 22312.”
UNQUOTE.

Fred wrote of the visit:

"Our Pentagon visit was Monday March 20th at
2 p.m. at Colonel Freeman’s office. — Madeleine
came along — Several high commission officers rev-
iewed the Sept. 7th film three times, and Colonel
Freeman stated: ’’This is the best film I’ve seen yet.”
and ’’| have never seen anything like this before.”
He told me to inform the UFO investigation comm-
ittee in Colorado — (— the new University of Colorado

UFO investigation study, — R.C.) — and send them
some pictures.

"Madeleine’s and G.A.’s films were already known
to them — from T.V. — and no comment was made on
them. They seemed to know all three of us — Ingrid
was there — they gave this impression.

"The Colonel said: ’’What about the scoutships
we are supposed to have in Dayton?’’ so we ans-
wered, ’’What about and how about it?’’ They did
not confirm anything or otherwise. But here too we
were treated respectfully, and returned the same to
them -.”

UNQUOTE.

Later, | received a fuller description of events.

"When | took the film September 7th, we were
between Mannheim and Frankfurt traveling North. The
time was about 11.45 a.m., no clouds, about seventy
degrees, Fahrenheit. Although power-lines and trees
were flying by, while | took the film, If there was a
station it surely swished by so fast that it was imp-
ossible to make out any signs, etc. In this case you
have to take my word for it. | was already before
alerted of the Brothers before the film, and became
aware of a group of 10 to 12 cigarette shaped
objects high in the sky (12 o’clock up.) | jumped
back to grab the camera, a 8 mm Revere, 30 mm
powerzoom, Chicago build and opened the window
all the way to eliminate any reflections and started
filming. All in all, 6 groups of ten to twelve space-
craft appeared one after another and moved along
the sky like Dolphins in the water, as an example.
Appearing and disappearing, the armada traveled to
about 9 o’clock (position) and disappeared complet-
ely, giving me the privilege to take about 23 feet of
Kodak color film.

"There were quite some people on the train, some
of them looking out of their windows, becoming
aware of the objects. As we could see they all had
big question-marks on their faces. They had never
seen anything like this before. | might add, there
was no fear on their faces. Ingrid and myself also
Glenn, we could hardly believe it, ever to be pres-
ented with such an opportunity of taking that many
ships on film and all at once. We stood on the win-
dow, Ingrid saying only, ’’oh, my God” and our every
hair was standing up at this wonderful sight. We will
never forget this experience and are surely grateful
for it. —”

UNQUOTE.

| wrote to Fred, asking him if | could use his pict-
ures and correspondence in UFO CONTACT. He
wrote back:

"You can go ahead and use what you feel is right
concerning my visit to NASA and the pictures —

"As you know, my work in this cause has no conn-
ections in pleasing my Ego, and therefore it does
not matter to me if my name is used or not. Import-
ant is the work, not us. —

"We all know George Adamski has given much to
this world in knowledge and information and | feel

ufo contact

At that time the Air Force termed the Heflin pict-
ure a hoax.

The ’’Bluebook”’ report said Heflin’s photo did not
correspond to his description of the round, saucer-
like object.

But since then the Air Force has commissioned
the independent study by the University of Colorado
at Boulder.

From: "San Francisco Chronicle’,
Friday, March 10, 1967.
Credit: Theodore Gray Hullett, San Francisco,
California, U.S.A.
*

Two PCs spot a »saucers«

Two policemen saw an oval-shaped object flash
through the sky yesterday. The officers said the
saucer-like object flew over Strood, Kent, at about
1,000 feet — and had a tail of blue and silvery stars.

Later there was a similar report from Sevenoaks.
(Kent.)

Police at Rochester said: ’’The authorities have
been told.”

From: "Daily Sketch’, London, March 25th, 1967.

*

»The flying saucer that
Andrew saw in Stamford Sky«

Andrew, the eight-year-old son of Mr. and Mrs.
T. H. Hyde, of 59 Scotgate, Stamford, claims to
have seen a ’’flying saucer’ over Stamford on Tues-
day. Aug. 2. He was in his back garden at the time,
and this is how he sketched and described what he
saw:

"| saw this object in the sky twice this morning
between about half-past ten and a quarter to eleven.
It was going very quickly above the clouds. The
first time | saw it, it was travelling in a N. W.
direction, and then about ten minutes later it came
back.

"It was then going in a S. E. direction, and it
made no sound. the shape was round, with black
circles looking like ship’s port-holes round the
middle. There were little things looking like landing
wheels on the bottom.

"There was a cloud of yellow stuff coming out
of the back and there was a ring round the middle
of the object.”

UNQUOTE.
From: A Stamford paper, Lincs. England.
August 1966.

A friend is a person who knows all about
you — and still likes you. Elbert Hubbard.

Literature

»Piece for a jig-saw«
By LEONARD G. CARMP., M.S.I.A. A.R.Ae.S.

author of ’’Space, Gravity and the
Flying Saucer.”

Here is a book about ’’flying saucers’? which can
be of immense interest to both the »converted”’ and
to the ’’open-minded”’, to the lay-person looking for
more corroboration to back up his beliefs in the
reality of visiting space-ships, and to the technically-
minded man who may well be rather surprised at the
wealth of detail of a highly technical nature included
in this work.

Leonard Cramp, who for many years has worked
in both aerodynamics and, more recently, with the
new design principles of the Hovercraft, has succ-
eeded in writing a bookunderstood, by any person
of normal intelligence who can read the English
language.

Piece For A Jig-saw’’ does, in truth, offer a piece
— a very large piece — of that enigmatic jig-saw
puzzle which has undulated and returned along 180
degrees through head-lines of the world’s press for
the past 20 years. Cramp himself has worked on
material for this book for over half that time. It is
12 years since he submitted to the public Space,
Gravity and the Flying Saucer’; — this book is a
natural and elevating follow-up.

Written in a style which is as open and as lacking
in pomposity as the author himself, one finds a patt-
ern developing from each chapter to the next, as he
takes us from his brief but concise "background
material’? of orthodox aerodynamics, curves into a
high trajectory through the experimental X-15 and
the family of rockets, and into the deep blue. One
is almost shocked to find with what ease Cramp
brings us down — not in a capsule supported by
great billowing parachutes, but gently landing in a
field, any field, ready for instant take-off to a far-off
hovering mother-ship.

At least, the mother-ship is there by implication,
because Mr. Cramp, as he says, having ’’set myself
the task of discovering the truth as an engineer’,
arrives, after a volume full of investigation and ex-
perimentation, at the last chapter which is entitled:
"Vindication Of A Scout Ship.”

The last paragraph of the second from last chapter
might well sum up a very large part of the UFO
story. It also sums up the author, a man who succ-
eeded in forming a large group of UFO enthusiasts
from a very hard core of technology, men who know

134 ufo contact

ities of the dark shape behind them. There was a
tiny white light behind which did not seem to be att-
ached to the object in any way; but as the night was
very dark, she admits that this could also have been
a star. The colored lights were not blinking, and the
object seemed not to move, although she of course
was moving towards it in her car. She described the
object (which, she admits, she saw very indistinctly
in the almost complete darkness), as a black wing-
like thing which made no noise. Then she suddenly
thought ’’Surely it can’t be a plane, this low. Per-
haps it is a flying saucer’. The size of the 2 colored
lights was small, about the size of ordinary car
blinker-lights. If the witness had stopped to investig-
ate, this could have been a most important sighting.
Unfortunately, she preferred to continue on her way,
and thus lost a great opportunity.

Thursday April 13th around 8.15 p.m., Victoria’s
lights suddenly all dimmed for a couple of seconds,
and at that moment, witnesses in town chanced to
see a colored object streak across the sky. The
Press tried to ’explain’ this dimming to lightning up
at Campbell River, some 200 miles away: this, how-
ever, would seem unconvincing, in view of the num-
erous past cases where a certain type of UFO has
repeatedly caused the dimming, and indeed the
blackout, of electric lights in widely separated areas.
It is also well-known to researchers that other types
of UFO’s do not affect electrical installation: on the
other hand, it is possible that all UFO’s may have
the ability to affect such installations, or to refrain
from doing so, at will.

Report from: P. M. H. Edwards, Victoria, B.C.,
Canada.

Credit: Tommy Helmer,

Bromma, Stockholm, Sweden.

ae elas
From: The Mexican newspaper ’’EL HERALDO”,
February 26th, 1967.

(There are three photographs of flying saucers
produced in the article, which unfortunately we
cannot reproduce here. However, here are the capt-
ions to the photographs. — Ed.)

Nr. 1. This photograph of a strange space object
was taken by Dr. Jose A. Lanuza, professor at the
Sorbonne in Paris and at the Autonomous National
University of Mexico, when he travelled aboard an
airplane of the Compafiia Mexicana de Aviacién from
Mexico City to Guadalajara.’ (— It will be rememb-
ered by some readers that many times George Adam-
ski spoke of a saucer base in the mountains around
Guadalajara. — Ed.)

Nr. 2. "Dr. Lanuza was able to take this picture
above the Valley of Mexico. It shows in our sky the
presence of another flying object. It is of a circular
shape and has in its upper part a transparent dome.
The ship seemed to be made of some metal of
aluminium color.”

Nr. 3. ’’This UFO photo was taken by Dr. Lanuza
at a distance of about 100 metres from the machine

and only a few metres above the surface of Mexico
Valley. Note at the bottom of the picture the power-
lines, which give an idea of how low the saucer was.
Dr. Lanuza has the negatives in his possession,
which have been carefully examined by photo ex-
perts, who stated that no fake was involved.”

eK i
Also in EL HERALDO”.

Flying saucers are seen in clear daylight

They were observed near Montevideo.

Montevideo (UPI) — Unidentified Flying Objects
were observed in this capital in clear daylight, stated
the director of the Astronomical Observatory ANTA-
RES, Juan Reyes Febles, who succeeded in taking
21 color photos of said objects.

He added that from one saucer were ejected into
space some smaller objects of the same shape
whose colors varied from blue to violet and orange.

According to Mr. Reyes and other witnesses’ obs-
ervations is was an oval UFO seen at a height of
about 6 km to the North of the City. It had an ind-
ented rim. One could see a dark dome with a dis-
tinctly white rim and one open porthole in the upper
part.

Finally Reyes said: ’’It could be proved that it was
a ’'mothersaucer”, i.e., a giant space-ship which
ejected from its interior other little ships that shot
away at a vertiginous speed”’.

The sighting was made the day before yesterday
and lasted for one hour and 40 minutes.”

(We should remind readers that this sighting was
made from an astronomical observatory, and that an
open porthole at a height of 6000 metres or 20,000
feet could well be in view with certain types of
telescopes. Whether it was in fact a porthole that
was open at that cold height and in that thin air
might be a point of conjecture perhaps, but we are
not reckoning with terrestrial aircraft here, of course.
— Editor.)

Credit: Mrs. Maria Cristina de Rueda,
IGAP-MEXICO.
Translation: Mrs. Dora Bauer, IGAP-AUSTRIA.

=

»Convincing« UFO pictures

SANTA ANA. — A University of Colorado professor
conducting a study of unidentified flying objects says
that "Photographic evidence of UFOs, when avail-
able, is very convincing.”

Robert J. Low, project co-ordinator of a Govern-
ment-sponsored UFO study, is in Santa Ana to study
a controversial 1965 UFO photo previously discredit-
ed by the Air Force.

Low termed the picture, taken by Rex Heflin of
Santa Ana, as ’’among the top four or five’ items of
photographic evidence of UFOs.

Heflin, 37, a project inspector for the Orange
County Highway Department, took his picture August
3, 1965, just off the Santa Ana freeway.

ufo contact 119

that the people should become aware first of his work
and contacts. When your readers have become
acquainted with the idea of the brothers being under
us this very moment and that everyone has the
chance to talk to them if he becomes aware of them,
then you may talk about my contacts in connection
with G.A. Ronald, | cannot tell you what to do, for
you must use your own judgement in this matter.
When ever you feel to use it then go ahead and do
so. | am not afraid to face the people or what ever
comes with it, neither is Madeleine. —’’
UNQUOTE.

That is the story of the Quiet Contacts.

Why have | told you all this? Because | know that
those who read these words will feel the sincerity
of Fred and Itigrid Steckling, and of Madeleine Rod-
effer.

The sceptics talk always of people "making a fast
buck’. Maybe they are right about some. But not
about the Stecklings or Madeleine. They are losing
money fast, but they are doing the job that George
Adamski left them to do, with steadfastness and cou-
rage.

What is the lesson from this?

First, — you will make up your own minds as to the
truth of their stories, — as George Adamski said so
often: ’’l’m not here to convince you, — just to tell
you.”

Second, — you are invited to look again at the
picture which is painted for you in these sequences
of events.

GEORGE ADAMSKI took his story and his films
to ANYONE - including authority — and was prepared
to face all criticism and expert analysis.

MADELEINE RODEFFER was enabled to take close-
up shots of a flying saucer over her garden. This
was arranged with the Brothers, and she was expect-
ing them. She has shown this film, with G.A.’s, on
nation-wide net-works, — she has faced the officials
on Capitol Hill. She has met the Brothers.

FRED STECKLING has taken a unique movie-film
which has impressed NASA’s photographic experts
and the men at the Pentagon. He has met the
Brothers.

Can it be CO-INCIDENCE all the time? Can they
FAKE unique and impressive evidence ALL THE
TIME?

At this point | might add that whilst George Adam-
ski was on his 1959 world-tour, many separate witn-
esses in Australia and New Zealand reported activit-
ies and formations of saucers over some of the very
cities and towns where G.A. lectured.

All this is for the record.

As Fred Steckling wrote in simple words which
held a world of meaning:

IMPORTANT IS THE WORK — NOT US.

UFO-PICTURES

The 23 feet of colour film

was exposed from a speed-

ing train travelling from

Mannheim to Frankfurt in
West Germany.

ufo contact

These still photographs are
taken from the screen pro-
jection of the 8 mm colour
film of september 7th 1966.

Taken with a REVERE 8 mm
cine-camera, automatic 30
mm powerzoom lens, by
Fred Steckling of Alexandria,
Virginia, U.S.A.

This aerial ’’armada” of
UFO’s is shown in impress-
ive formation in the cloud-

less sky.

Shown to photographic
experts of NASA.

Of the film, Pentagon UFO
spookesman said: ”This is
the best film I’ve seen yet!”

ufo contact 133

"MANY TIMES | HAVE SEEN FLYING DISCS
FOLLOWING AND OVERTAKING MISSILES IN
FLIGHT AT THE EXPERIMENTAL BASE AT WHITE
SANDS, NEW MEXICO, WHERE, AS IS KNOWN,
THE FIRST AMERICAN ATOM BOMB WAS TRIED
OUT,” COLONEL MACLAUGHLIN.

Missile expert.
(Statement in 1949.)

= fet

29 sight UFO‘s over White
Sands Range

by Dorrance Guy.

Alamogordo, N.M. — At least 29 White Sands Missile
Range personnel were eyewitnesses to one or more
Unidentified Flying Objects between 10.30 and 11
a.m. Thursday.

News concerning the UFOs has been cutoff by
orders from the Pentagon.

All service personnel and civilians working for the
services have been forbidden to discuss the sight-
ings.

An investigation is under way at Holloman Air
Force Base, N.M., with Maj. James Stephens, UFO
officer, in charge. He, too, is not allowed to discuss
the sightings.

Terry Clark, president and general manager of
radio station KALG, Alamogordo, said the UFOs first
were spotted near Ruidoso, N.M., then went near
Holloman AFB, then south toward Orogrande, N.M.,
and then disappeared over the Sacramento Moun-
tains.

Information officers at Holloman AFB and WSMR
were contacted by Clark and he was told the Flight
Safety Office at Kirtland AFB at Albuquerque, N.M.,
would handle the investigation. Kirtland would make
no comment exept that all information would have to
come from the Pentagon.

Clark called the assigned number at the Pentagon
and was told that no information was available.

Capt. Frank J. Morris, director of information at
Holloman AFB, Saturday night said that Maj. Step-
hens is handling the investigation. He said the re-
sults would be sent to Wright-Patterson AFB, Ohio,
and from there would go to the Pentagon. He said
no information wculd be released except through the
Public Information Office under the Secretary of the
Air Force.

Neither WSMR nor Holloman AFB personnel has
any authority in the case.

Clark said eyewitnesses, when they could be ident-
ified, would not allow use of their names because
of the Air Force regulation.

However, these witnesses estimated that the ’’silv-
ery discs’ were flying at an altitude of ’’20,000 to
25,000 feet’ and moving at a speed of ’’approximat-
ely 2,000 miles per hour.”

There were several Air Force planes in the air
over WSMR at the time of the sightings. While it

took a few minutes to transfer from Army to Air
Force communications, the pilots were notified of
the UFOs. They circled around, but none of the
pilots was able to see anything unusual.

Missile firings at WSMR were checked. There were
none at this time. There was little cloud cover during
the half hour involved and, at this time of day, it
would be impossible to see a meteor. The objects
were moving much faster than a balloon.

One WSMR individual said the UFOs were tracked
on radar. There is no accurate estimate of the
number of objects spotted. There may have been
one — may have been more.

There is no indication when the Pentagon will
release any information on the sightings — if ever.

From: The El Paso Times, El Paso, Texas.
Sunday, March 5th, 1967.

COMMENT: We understand from our source of in-
formation that this news item appeared only in El
Paso, Texas. Inquiries showed that the Air Force
had stopped the incident being reported in the
national newspapers. To quote the above news report:
"There is no indication when the Pentagon will
release any information on the sightings — if ever.’’

UNQUOTE.

And so, life goes on...

ast SP acs

UFO‘s over British Columbia

On April 14th, 1967, at about 8.05 p.m., lan Squire
and Scott McNeill (two boys aged about 14) were
on their cycles going along Cedar Hill Crossroads,
Virginia, B.C. They crossed over Cadboro Bay Road
into Upper Terrace Road (Uplands residential
district), and proceeded down into Ripon Road as
far as the Circle. From there, they saw a red and a
green light hovering over what they thought was
probably the area of the Uplands Golf Clubhouse
on Cadboro Bay Road. They were on their way down
to the Yacht Club, and didn’t stop to investigate,
however. The two lights were not blinking, and
seemed stationary (but it must be remembered that
on their cycles, they were moving, which prevented
their being certain about this last point). The sky
was dark and starry: there was hardly any wind at
all.

At 8.10 p.m. the same evening, i.e. five or six min-
utes later, lan Squire’s grandmother (name withneld
at witness’ request) was driving uphill along Cad-
boro Bay Road southwards towards the northern
gates into The Uplands district, when suddenly she
saw a red and a green light over the roadway, i.e.
higher than the height of a very tall tree. The wit-
ness, who is personally known to me through her
daughter and grandson, unfortunately did not stop
to investigate. Instead, she continued on right under-
neath the object which, she said, seemed to be
spread entirely over the width of the wide roadway.
The two colored lights seemed to be shining only
forwards, and to be from 4 to 6 feet from the extrem-

132 ufo contact

LIFE’S GIFTS.

Each of us receives life’s gifts on Earth. A belief
in a continued spiritual life after the comparitively
short time of 70 years of physical life here on Earth,
compared with the endless cycle of eternity, makes
the actions of the moment an investment with far-
reaching consequences.

The certainty that Man can choose between good
and evil should lead him nearer to his Creator. Fur-
ther, it should lead to an understanding that Man’s
life here and later, is more likely to depend on his
relation to the spiritual than to the scientific.

Our decisions now will unavoidably determine fut-
ure actions. Nature around us will hold more unsolv-
ed than solved mysteries. But science has won itself
sufficient power so that it can open up a Golden
Age for Mankind, providing this power is used for
good — or destroy it, if the power is used negatively.

Religion’s ethical guide-lines are the bonds that
can hold civilisation together. Without it Man cannot
reach his dearest goal — peace with himsefl, his God
and his neighbour. Wernher von Braun.

From: ’’Jyllands-Posten’”’, Denmark,
Dec 11th 1966.

Credit: IGAP-DENMARK.
Translation: RONALD CASWELL.

UFO-reports

Soviet radar spots UFOs

MOSCOW - (AP) — A Soviet scientist says there
may really be such things as flying saucers from
outer space.

Soviet radar screens have détected unidentified
flying objects (UFOs) for 20 years, he says.

But Soviet scientists, like their colleagues in the
West, are still puzzled about what such UFOs really

The scientist, identified only as F. Zigel, was writ-
ing in the current issue of the illustrated Soviet
youth magazine Cmena.

He offered five possible explanations for UFOs,
including visitors from outer space. He called this
alternative ''extremely speculative.”

But,” he added, "as the UFO problem has not
yet been solved, different explanations, including
extremes, are possible.”

The article took the lid off a subject rarely disc-
ussed in the press here.

In the 1950s the Soviet press scoffed at American
reports of flying saucers as just so much cold war
propaganda.

By those Soviet accounts, the Americans tried to
explain away the "'saucers’’ as some sort of new,
secret Soviet weapon.

Reports of flying saucers sighted in the Soviet
Union, in the Caucasus and in Central Asia, also
were ridiculed here.

Then for several years the Soviet press remained
silent on the whole question; the Cmena article show-
ed that the UFO issue is being reopened, this time
as an object of serious scientific study.

Zigel was identified as one of the editors of a
book, ’’Inhabited Cosmos,” being prepared for publi-
cation here. The book will discuss the possibility of
living beings in space and efforts to communicate
with them.

The chief editor of the book is B. P. Konstantinov,
who, as a vice president of the Soviet Academy of
Science, is one of this country’s most respected
scientists.

In his magazine article, Zigel said the ’’Angel
Echo,” a UFO detected by radar, is constantly obs-
erved by scientists at the Central Aerological Obs-
ervatory near Moscow.

Similar observations, he said, have been made in
the United States, Australia, India and Japan.

The phenomena of the UFO today should be con-
sidered as global,’”’ he added.

He rejected the idea that birds, insects or plant
seeds could cause such reactions on radar screens.

Zigel said there could be no doubt that UFOs
exist "but the nature of these objects is still not
understandable today.”

Then he listed these five possible éxplanations:

1. NONSENSE or invention. He said there was
some untruth here, citing reports of people who
claimed to have ridden in flying saucers and others
who threw hats in the air and then photographed
“saucers”. But he rejected this alternative as killing
the question rather than solving it.

2. AN OPTICAL illusion related to the distribution
of light in the earth’s atmosphere, such as a rain-
bow. The UFO, he said, is more complicated than
that, however.

3. A NEW SECRET flying apparatus of one of the
military powers on earth. ’’No one holds this view
now,” he said.

4. AN UNKNOWN phenomena of nature, just as
radioactivity was unknown until the end of the last
century. In this context, ionized particles and charged
particles of dust in the atmosphere were given as a
possible explanation. But Zigel said, this does not
explain the color or maneuverability of UFOs or their
appearance in good weather.

5. SPACESHIPS from an advanced civilization on
another planet. Zigel said the speed of UFOs supp-
orts this theory. So does what he called ’’the fact”

that no UFOs were ever reliably reported to have
landed.

Zigel called for ’’an all-sided, thorough, scientific
exploration” to clear up the origin of UFOs once
and for all.

From: The Miami News, Wed, April 19th, 1967.
Credit: Mrs. Jane McEvoy, Florida, U.S.A.

ufo contact 121

What Adamski
Said...

GEORGE ADAMSKI WAS MANY TIMES ACC-
USED of being a charlatan, — that is, a person who
pretends to have more knowledge or skill than he
does have, — an impostor or a cheat. He has been
called a faker, because he has produced photo-
graphs of so-called space-ships which he claimed
to have taken himself. He was a liar, taking money
from the credulous with stories of fantasy, saying
they were true.

Most of these names were given to him by people
who would not have had the courage to say it to his
face, or within the presence of a lawyer. If Adamski
had invoked the law of libel in every case such as
this, not one of his detractors could have proven
that the name he had used was applicable, and
Adamski could have indeed made money from those
claims! But Adamski was not that kind of man. He
knew the truth, and therefore no-one could harm his
integrity. On this integrity all his subsequent actions
rested.

Many incidents is his later life were mis-reported,
sometimes out of malice, at other times because of
expediency, when insufficient detail was at hand.
Many were the garbled reports circulated about one
very special occasion. Here, below, is WHAT ADAM-
SKI SAID about:

The royal audience

During my stay in Brisbane | received a letter from
Rey d’Aquila of The Hague, Netherlands, requesting
me to attend an interview with Queen Juliana on May
18th, 1959. The letter requested an immediate reply.
| sent a cable confirming receipt of the letter and
consenting to the interview.

Toward the end of April, when | returned to Lon-
don from lectures in outlying cities of the British
Isles, the rumor was out that | was to have an inter-
view with Queen Juliana. | was at the home of Des-
mond Leslie when the telephone rang. It was a rep-
orter asking for verification of the interview. | admitt-
ed only that such a rumor existed, and did not con-
firm anything.

The reporter was cautioned not to publish anything
until it had been confirmed. He agreed to await con-
firmation, out of respect for Queen Juliana, but his
respect was apparently short-lived.

The Daily Herald of April 29th, 1959, London, pub-
lished the following article under the heading, ’’Ju-
liana’s New Joy—Flying Saucers’. The reporter gave
this account: ’’| checked with Juliana’s secretary.
Yes,’ the secretary said over the phone from Hol-
land. ’Her Majesty has asked Mr. Adamski to con-
fidential talks. More than that | cannot disclose. The
talk will be between the two of them alone.’ ”

The newspaper accounts which claimed | told rep-
orters of the forthcoming meeting with Queen Juliana
were entirely false. One thing is certain: the press
was furious. The reporters could not get any inform-
ation from me so they fabricated stories to save face
(and perhaps to protect their jobs!). Newspapers all
over the United States copied these false reports
and added comments as they passed them on.

An article in the Los Angeles Examiner of May
19th, entitled ‘In Dutch On Saucer Discussion,”
stated: ’’The press has given Adamski, from Los
Angeles, a chilly reception. The Catholic People’s
Party newspaper De Volkskrant, said, for example:
‘We are not opposed to a court jester on the green
lawns of the Royal Palace, provided he is not taken
for an astronomical philosopher.’ ”

Soon after the newspaper De Volkskrant criticized
my interview with Queen Juliana, several other Dutch
papers followed suit and began to speak in a critical
vein. The more dignified papers, however, presented
straightforward accounts like the following:

"QUEEN JULIANA SEES U.S. WRITER, Hour’s
Discussion on Space Travel, from our correspondent.
THE HAGUE, May 19th. Queen Juliana and the
Prince of the Netherlands today received, at Soest-
dijk Palace, Mr. George Adamski, the American
author of several books on space travel. The Queen
and Prince Bernhard had a talk lasting about an
hour with Mr. Adamski. It is understood that the talk
was of a purely informative character. The Queen
and Prince Bernhard wanted to become acquainted
with Mr. Adamski and his views.

"Those who were present at the conversation
included Mr. C. Kolff, president of the Royal Nether-
lands Society for Aviation, Lieutenant-General H.
Schaper, Chief of the Royal Netherlands Air Staff,
Professor Jongbloed, of Utrecht University, an expert
in medical science dealing with aviation, and Pro-
fessor Rooy, of Amsterdam University, who gives
lectures on mass communication.

"Mr. Adamski, who claims to have flown round the
moon in a flying saucer and to have been in contact
with inhabitants of the planet Venus, is lecturing in
The Hague and Amsterdam.”

As | am a common man with no title or position,
some newspapers questioned the Queen’s right to
invite me to the palace. A true ruler, or represen-
tative of the people, can gain knowledge from the
lowest as well as the highest sources.

The press called the Queen gullible and accused
her of falling for strange things. This is not true. She
is only interested in all new things of life, as a ruler
should be. We are living in times when on every
hand things are changing. Unless the rulers are well
informed, they cannot serve their people well.

Queen Juliana has the welfare of her people at
heart. Therefore she has an open mind that permits
her to look at all facets of life, not bowing to the
dictates of the few; and so she was not persuaded
to cancel the appointment.

At this time | will relate the true facts of my inter-

122 ufo contact

view with the Queen. They have never been pub-
lished before. The press reports quoting questions
and answers from the interview were falsified, as no
reporters were allowed inside the palace during the
interview!

| left London and arrived in Amsterdam on the
15th of May, 1959. Miss Rey d’Aquila and some news-
paper reporters were at the airport to meet me. |
was still suffering from the cold | had caught in
Scotland, so | excused myself and was taken to a
small hotel on the outskirts of Amsterdam.

The next afternoon | was called to a television
rehearsal for a program that was to be given that
evening. This was on May 16th, and | showed my
film on the program. The reception by the public of
my subject and the film was very good.

After the rehearsal, we drove back to the hotel,
picked up my luggage and left for The Hague. Miss
d’Aquila had arranged transportation by automobile,
and | arrived at The Hague about midnight.

My hotel was in a quiet residential district, across
the street from a beautiful park. The first day was
set aside for me to rest. That morning | unpacked
my camera and walked through the park to the
ocean. Several restful hours were spent strolling
around and photographing the local scenery.

| had been placed in this secluded hotel purposely
to avoid the press. When the newsmen could not
locate me, they became very irritated. Those in
charge of publicity would not say where | was stay-
ing, and the manager of the hotel had been given
orders not to reveal my presence. For one day and
evening | was able to relax.

On the morning of May 18th, | had breakfast and
readied myself for the visit to Soestdijk Palace near
Utrecht. The Palace car was to call for me at about
10.30 a.m. This was an informal meeting, so my bus-
iness suit was proper attire. | had been carefully
coached on the proper etiquette and conduct in the
presence of my royal hosts. When the car arrived,
| was introduced to the chauffeur who held the door
open as | entered. To evade the press, we avoided
the customary highway to the palace.

We entered the palace garden through a gate
opened by a guard who saluted smartly as we pass-
ed. | noticed the highway in front of the palace was
empty as we turned into the grounds. A winding
driveway, bordered by massive shrubs, brought us
to the huge entrance. My mind was so taken up in
trying to remember all the instructions | had been
given that | failed to notice much about the palace
itself, except that it was white. The chauffeur had
spoken very few words as we rode along and had
given me a mind to relieve my throat when | coughed.

It was 11.00 a.m. when the car stopped in front of
the entrance. A uniformed attendant opened the
door, saluted, and escorted me up the broad steps
to the palace doors, which were opened by two
doormen dressed in royal blue, who also saluted.
When | entered, one of these men helped me out
of my top coat and muffler; the other escorted me
into a large library with high ceiling.

| had been nervous with anticipation, but a feeling
of calm and ease came over me as | stood in the
presence of the Queen. She and the others present
were standing when | entered the room. The Queen’s
secretary came forward and introduced me to Her
Majesty, Queen Juliana. In turn, | was presented to
Prince Bernhard; Lt. General Schaper, Chief of the
Royal Netherlands Air Staff; Professor Jongbloed,
of Aerial Medicine; Dr. M. Rooy, Telecommunica-
tions; and Mr. Kolff, President of the Royal Nether-
lands Society for Aviation.

When the Queen acknowledged the introduction, |
completely forgot all the instructions and could not
remember the formalities that should have been foll-
owed. Instead, | acted upon my feelings and was at
ease, for here was a feeling of welcome as among
friends.

The Queen graciously asked if | drank coffee.
When | replied that | did, coffee was served in large
cups of beautiful design, while we remained stand-
ing. After all had been served, we were asked to be
seated. That coffee was the best | had had since
leaving America!

We were at one end of the library, seated in
lounge chairs assembled in a horseshoe position.
Directly across from me sat the Queen. Next to her
was the Prince, and on my right, next to the Prince,
was a gentleman who acted as spokesman for him.
As | remember, this gentleman was Mr. Kolff. Seated
on my left were the other three gentlemen already
named. The secretary was seated a little apart from
the others.

Small pastries were served, and as we sat enjoy-
ing the refreshments and indulging in informal con-
versation, | noted that Her Majesty wore a light blue
frock. The men were dressed in black suits with
white shirts and black ties.

Cigarettes were passed. Then the secretary opened
the topic for which | had been summoned. She ref-
erred to my two books and asked a question regard-
ing my trip around the moon. | was aware of having
been granted only forty-five minutes, so | made my
answers as brief as possible.

The astronomer and Air Force chief asked que-
stions next, trying to discredit the interplanetary
visitors. As | think of it now, perhaps my answer
was a little rude in the presence of royalty, for |
said: ’’| have known of no major officials of our Air
Force, and few astronomers, who have told what they
actually know about the visitors from space. It is a
known fact that the secret files and confidential
reports of the Air Force have never been released
to the public, or even to high officers in the govern-
ment. | am inclined to believe this applies to all
governments.” | think Her Majesty knew exactly what
| meant, for she gave a tiny smile of acknowledg-
ment.

| pointed out that most of the findings of our Earth
satellite had been published in my books at least
three years before.

Many questions were asked about inhabitants of

ufo contact 131

pulses come from the animal’s glands and its react-
ions are wholly automatic. The make-up of an animal
allows no room for freedom of choice, searching
curiosity or doubt or conflict between impulses and
ethical standards.

An animal knows nothing of that strange voice
called conscience, which tells us what is right and
what is wrong. Only Mankind is equipped with the
conflicts which arise, because it is created in God’s
Image. And only Mankind is equipped with a soul
which enables it to master the problems caused by
these conflicts.

Today, thousands of scientists are at work on the
most momentous task Mankind has ever faced: an
attempt to understand a physical Universe which is
unending in time and space, complicated in its detail
and impressive in its orderliness, and to understand
its origin and how it functions.

It is no longer a sufficient explanation of the aims
of science to say that it seeks to find the physical
laws which govern the Universe and increases Man-
kind’s control over it, because science’s field of
endeavour has increased in size. The basic elements
of science are collective experiences, observations
and the setting of certain goals at which to aim.
From these the scientist tries to make a model of
time, proportions and cause. When one gains new
knowledge the old model is not rejected, it is just
altered where the new knowledge points to an alter-
ation.

By reason of the fact that the scientist is willing
to alter his model of the Universe, he shows that
he does not demand to know the final truth. His
scientific laws are at most only re-writings of the
observations he has made.

The laws of science do not control the reality but
attempts only to explain it. Therefore the laws can
be altered when one attains new knowledge.

NEW AIMS.

The tasks which science sets itself are never-end-
ing. For truth is no static concept. For every new
answer arrived at, a dozen new concepts come into
view.

Science stands before new frontiers in many fields
of endeavour: the nucleus of the atom becomes more
and more enigmatic — the origin and composition of
the Universe is still shrouded in mystery — the inner
functions of living organisms still allow of no ex-
planation. Science’s Golden Age lies ahead of us.

The scientist works in an atmosphere where doubt
is an accepted fact of life and exaggerated ortho-
doxy taboo. Thomas Huxley says of the scientist:
"For him scepticism is a first duty and blind faith
an unforgivable sin’. A result of scientific progress
is that traditions, which are the buttresses of faith,
have been swept aside. The sciences and religion
have therefore often collided. And yet it is one of
the tragedies of our time that science and religion
have become adversaries. Because to achieve a sol-
ution of the conflict it has been tempting to adopt a
policy of peaceful co-existence, to divide our ex-

periences into two different areas, to give science
control over the one and religion control over the
other.

Let science explore the physical world, whilst
religion takes care of the other, people say. When
science has reached its limits, then religion can take
over and explain that which allows of no explanation.
This is a fateful step to take. To separate the two
worlds could only be done if scientists were not
Christians and no Christians were scientists. But
science and religion do not reign over two separate
kingdoms.

INVISIBLE.

It is not possible to build a wall between religion
and science. Gradually, as science is enabled to ex-
plain some of the mysteries of the Universe it comes
into areas which were previously unknown or only
accepted on a basis of faith.

Every new experience — physical or spiritual — must
fit into a pattern which gives both faith and mean-
ing. It is Mankind that explores the Universe, exper-
iments, and seeks for the truth. It is not just a detail,
it takes part itself in the process of creation. Man-
kind itself is the greatest result of the Creation.

The fact that more and more of the wonders of
Creation are being disclosed is of direct concern to
Mankind.

Science and religion can be compared with two
windows in a house, through which we can observe
the world around us or our neighbours. (There are
other windows to be found in the house: Art, Lite-
rature and History). Whatever we may see through
the windows of this imaginary house, it must fit in
with the model we have of the Universe and our
place in it.

Where it does not fit, we must alter the model,
alter our aim and try to increase our ability to under-
stand the Creation.

In our modern society it would appear that many
people think that the advances made by science
have caused such things as religious belief to be-
come out-of-place and old-fashioned. They cannot
understand why we should "believe in something,
when science can tell us that we know” so much.
The simple answer to this assertion is that we are
aware of more of nature’s mysteries today than
people were before the advent of scientific research.
There is absolutely no reason to believe that God
cannot retain His place in our modern times in the
same way as before we began to examine His Crea-
tion with telescope and ion-accelerators.

Even though science is no religion, it is, by nature
of its assumptions, its application and its search for
the truth, a religious function. The Creator reveals
Himself through His Creations. As Charles A. Coul-
son says: ’’Science helps us to create a picture of
God”. We must remember that science only exists
because there are people, and its concepts exist
only in people’s understanding. Behind these con-
cepts lies reality, which God can reveal to us.

ufo contact

Science

Science and God
DR. WERNHER VON BRAUN.

"It is one of the tragedies of our time, that science
and religion have become adversaries’, says Dr.
Wernher von Braun, who is one of the world’s lea-
ding space-researchers, head of the George C. Mar-
shall Space-travel Centre in Alabama, one of the
brains behind the Gemini Project and the U.S.A.’s
project for the first manned moon rocket, to be sent
up in 1969.

*

THE TWO STRONGEST FORCES which go to
create our present-day civilisation are science and
religion. Through science Man seeks to learn more
of the mysteries of Creation. Through religion he
seeks to understand the Creator.

They are not independent of each other. It is just
as difficult for me to understand a scientist who
cannot perceive a Higher Reality behind the origin
of the Universe, as it is to understand a theologian
who denies the advances made by science. Science
and religion are far from being independent of each
other, neither are they opposing forces; on the cont-
rary they are as brothers. Both are striving for a
better world. While science seeks to uncover the
forces of Nature around us, religion is trying to
discover the forces in Man himself.

As we gradually gain a greater knowledge of nat-
ure so we become more impressed and humbled by
its orderliness and never-failing perfection. Our ex-
tensive knowledge of the Universe and its laws has
made it possible for us to send people out from
their natural surroundings into unknown space and
bring them safely back to earth again.

ENDLESSNESS OF THE UNIVERSE.

Manned space-flights are pioneer works. But until
now they have only begun to open the door out
toward the endlessness of the Universe.

That which we can see of the mysteries of the
Universe through the crack in that door only con-
firms our belief in its Creator. Mankind with its
limited understanding cannot comprehend an omni-
present, almighty, all-knowing and eternal God.

Every attempt to create a picture of God and red-
uce Him so that He can be comprehended offers
but further proof of His Greatness. | believe it best
if one, through Faith, accepts God as a proof of
Goodwill, which throughout history manifests itself
more and more as the ability of Mankind to under-
stand, grows.

It gives peace of mind to think of God as the
Father of all, and the resultant thought, that all men
are brothers, is an ethical guide-line.

Scientists only know that in nature nothing is des-
troyed without being converted into energy. Not even
the tiniest particle can disappear without leaving a
trace. Nature knows nothing of annihilation, only
change. Would God have had less consideration for
His Masterpiece, the Human Soul?

For me immortality means a continuation of our
spiritual existence after death.

Mankind has had a belief in a life after death
since the dawn of history. This has been as essential
part of the primitive cultures’ religions and it has
been preserved in higher developed religions and
philosophies.

The significance of this is of far more importance
than the pronouncements of philosophers and theo-
logians about what we can expect when we leave
this world. From the dawn of time the conception of
immortality has had its influence on untold millions
of people.

THE SOUL DiVIDES MANKIND FROM
OTHER CREATIONS.

The soul separates Man from the animal. An
animal’s actions are dictated by its inborn impulses,
i.e. hunger, fear and self-preservation. These im-

UFO CONTACT WISHES TO OFFER ITS DEEPEST SYMPATHY TO
THE FAMILY OF A BRAVE SOVIET PIONEER -

COSMONAUT VLADIMIR KOMAROV
WHO DIED ON A SPACE VENTURE, APRIL 24th 1967.

ufo contact 123

other planets. | retold much of what | had written
in my second book. The major questions of our con-
ference dealt with our future in outer space.

Awareness of time was lost as we all grew inter-
ested in the conversation about outer space. What
began as a forty-five minute interview lasted two
hours. Finally the Queen reminded me that my lect-
ure started in less than an hour. Interest was so
great in the topic, if it had not been for the lecture,
we could have kept talking for hourse.

When the Queen reminded me of the time, | arose
and we all shook hands in a very friendly manner.
| was deeply impressed with the firm sincere grasp
of Her Majesty and the Prince. The spokesman for
the Prince escorted me to the car. During the con-
ference he had stated he would like to take a trip
with the space people and he repeated the request
as we descended the steps to the waiting car.

As we were leaving the Palace grounds, | noticed
a large group of people standing across the high-
way and facing the Palace. As the car came through
the gate, many of these people gave the familiar
salute. Possibly they only wanted to get a look at
the common man who had been granted a private
interview with the Queen, and whom the press had
described as an “objectionable” visitor. On the fast
trip back to the hotel, | noticed crowds of people
along the highway, saluting as we passed.

Arriving at the hotel, we found a car waiting to
take me to the lecture at The Hague. The Queen’s
chauffeur asked if he might attend the lecture and
was granted permission to do so.

Due to the long interview at the Palace, | arrived
twenty minutes late at the lecture hall where a cap-
acity crowd was waiting. The people present were
filled with curiosity and anticipation in regard to my
meeting with Queen Juliana. Reporters especially
were insistent that | give them all the details. This |
could not do, for the meeting had been on a level of
dignity that denied me the privilege of speaking
until the Queen spoke first. All | could say was:
"The Queen was very kind, and if there were more
people like her the world would be a better place
to live in.’’ A tremendous burst of applause took
place, and from there on the lecture proceeded as
normal.

After the lecture, the reporters crowded around
me asking, ’’What did the Queen say?” "It is the
Queen’s honor to speak first,’ | replied. This made
the press very dissatisfied with me. Some went so
far as to write up a fictitious interview, complete
with questions and answers.

When | returned to my hotel | was grateful that no
one knew where | was, for now | could relax and go
over the events of the day.

A radio was in my room, and the next morning |
tuned it to the BBC since | could not understand
the Dutch of local stations. On an early-morning
program called The News of Europe, | was very
much surprised to hear a report from a Russian sci-
entist stating that the moon was not composed of
volcanic dust, but rather of granite formations sim-

ilar to Earth. Many green spots that looked like
vegetation had been observed on the other side of
the moon. This confirmed some of the things | had
told the Queen during our two-hour conference.

| was curious to know just how the Russians had
gained this information. My friends and | discussed
the possibilities later that morning. Was it possible
that a Russian had made a trip as | had, or did they
receive the information from their moon shot that
went into orbit around the sun? (Information received
at the time of this writing seems to confirm that they
did.)

Before the morning was over | was asked if |
would accept an interview with Fox Movietone in
downtown Hague. | would be called for and taken to
the appointed place so | agreed.

The selected place was a large hotel in the centre
of town. Our car was parked across the street from
the building. | was told to walk across the street and
enter the hotel. Camera were ready and set for ope-
ration, but | had to rehearse the walk several times
before pictures were finally taken. In the final take,
the large glass doors, framed in brass, opened auto-
matically and | entered the hotel.

| was greeted by many people, including the man-
ager of the hotel, and received the customary salute.
This was not photographed. | was taken to a large
room where cameras and sound equipment were in
place. Here | was seated beside a small mahogany
table which held a bouquet of American Beauty
roses. My interrogator was seated on my right. His
first question was: ’’The world wants to know what
the Queen had to say.”

My answer was that Her Majesty and His Royal
Highness were deeply interested in the future of
outer space development. The interrogator was very
dissatisfied with my reply and tried to get me to
relate our conversation in some detail. When | ref-
used, he hurried through the other questions, and the
news conference was over. | was told this newsreel
would be shown all over the world, but | have no
reports of it ever having been shown.

It is interesting to note that, after my visit to the
Palace, wherever | went in Holland | received the
salute from those who recognised me. Perhaps this
is a customary honor paid to one who has been
received by the Queen.

On Friday May 22nd, | received an invitation from
the manager of the City Theatre in downtown Am-
sterdam, to attend the preview of an Italian film,
Death Comes From Outer Space.

The death that came from outer space was a gig-
antic asteroid travelling at terrific speed directly
toward the earth. This asteroid was formed from all
the debris blown into space by our atomic and hyd-
rogen explosions. The people of the Earth were in a
panic, for they were warned that at any moment it
could hit our planet and cause complete destruction.
Meanwhile, huge tidal waves and heavy earthquakes
were wreaking havoc in many places throughout the
world,

124 ufo contact

The scientists of all nations called upon the mil-
itary in every other nation to aim their atomic miss-
iles at the asteroid and to fire simultaneously. In
this way the asteroid was destroyed by the same
weapons that had caused its creation.

Representatives of the press were present at the
showing. After it was over, | was asked if such a
thing could happen in real life. | replied that it could
and gave the following explanation:

"The lightning bolt is created from invisible par-
ticles of matter that are fused together by the terr-
ific heat of a natural electrical discharge. It is entirely
possible for the millions of tons of debris that have
been blown into the upper regions of the earth’s
atmosphere to come together and form an artificial
asteroid. The larger the mass of debris, the more
attraction it would have for additional particles.”

This picture alerted me to the possibility that rad-
iation and fallout are not the only dangers we might
be facing from our atomic explosions.

Reports have come from Mexico stating that a
huge fireball crashed into a mountain just before the
disastrous earthquake there in August of 1959.

Recently several planes have reportedly hit objects
from space. Some have survived; others have cras-
hed to their doom. Could they have crashed into
some of the high-energy pockets left by our explos-
ions?

Some of these man-made asteroids burn and glow,
and could be mistaken for ordinary meteorites. This
may also be the answer to some of the fireballs that
have been reported.

By the way of closing this chapter, | would like to
reproduce in part a letter concerning the lecture in
Amsterdam, sent to co-workers in The Netherlands
area. It was written by Miss Rey d’Aquila, dated
June 13th, 1959, and reads as follows:

"At the end of the lecture in Amsterdam, Pro-
fessor E. L. Seelliger of Bergen (NH), physicist and
former Delft Professor, stepped on the platform and
thanked ’our friend Adamski’ in public for the things
that he had brought us. Quoting him exactly: ’The
things that we have heard may sound strange to most
of us, if not all, but strange things happen every
day, if our eyes are open. | hope that we will be
open-minded and benefit from the things we have
heard today.’

"The audience applauded heartily. (Inside inform-
ation: Professor Seelliger is in good relation to the
Queen and if we take his mental courage and her
interest and deep understanding, we may conclude
that after all George Adamski’s visit to our country
has been a successful one and the stepping stone
to a better future.)”’

Regarding my interview with the Queen, | will
again quote from the report: But one thing we can
say for sure, no press reporters were present. So
what the press had further to say about his audience
was a big lie from the first to the last line! Paris
Match, for instance, carried a wholly imaginative
‘Interview With The Queen’, complete with questions
and answers!”

| wish those imaginative reporters could have been
present during my interview with Queen Juliana. They
might have learned something of dignity, kindness
and gentility, from a great woman.who rules her
country with wisdom and love.

From: ’’Flying Saucers Farewell’? 1961,
by George Adamski.

UFOLOGY

A proposal to UNO

PRESS RELEASE NO. 6.

February 2nd, 1967. New York.
RELEASED BY
Intercontinental UFO Observer and
Analytic Network,
Colman VonKeviczky representative, 33-50
75th Street 1C., Jackson Heights, N.Y. 11372. U.S.A.
SUBJECT.

The Intercontinental UFO Observer and Analytic
Network, representing the globally united scientific
UFO research analysts /Press Rel., Jan. 11th, 1967/,
have requested U.N. Secretary General U Thant, for
invitation of the world leading scientists pioneering
in UFO studies, pioneer UFO expert researchers, to
the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space Conference, to be
held September, 1967 in Vienna; to study first hand
the evidence and earthly reconnaissance of uniden-
tified power/s/ by UFOs from other celestial bodies.

Representation should be headed by the nations-
wide awarded space and rocket scientist ’’father of
astronautics’”’ Prof. Dr. Hermann Oberth and a world
wide documentation should be furnished and exhib-
ited by the Intercontinental UFO Network, support-
ing the statements of the scientists’ representation.

Request based on a resolution of the General Ass-
embly 21st:Session /Dec. 19 and 21, 1966/ that the
UN is privileged to invite Special Agencies to the
Conference related to the subject.

Following is the next of the Memorandum address-
ed on February 1st, 1967 to His Excellency U Thant,
Secretary General of the United Nations:

My dear Secretary General — Your Excellency,

The Intercontinental UFO Observer and Analytic
Network respectfully request that you, chairman of
the Outer Space Affairs Committee, his Excellency,
Dr. Kurt Waldheim, Ambassador of Austria to the
U.N. and the General Assembly, invite a represent-
ation of the world’s leading scientists pioneering in
UFO studies, expert UFO research pioneers to the
Conference on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space
to be held September, 1967 in Vienna. Our request
is in relation to the resolution of the General Ass-
embly, 21st Session, which took place on 20 and 22
December, 1966, and whose privilege it is to invite

ufo contact

Fresco in the Dechany Monastery (Yugoslavia). The
angels look as if they were flying in spacecraft.

The icon, ’’The Resurrection of our Lord Jesus
Christ’. (17th century) from the Moscow Theological
Academy. ’’The House of the Lord’’ resembles a
space ship.

128 ufo contact

fantasy, others think that initially it had some
meaning. Two centuries ago the mystery attracted
the German astronomer, Johan Kepler, while more
recently, scientists held an international symposium
to discuss the matter.

But neither Kepler nor contemporary scientists
found the key to the problem, which may turn out to
have an altogether unexpected solution.

In antiquity and the Middle Ages human imaginat-
ion was stirred by an unusual star, now believed to
be the Star of Bethlehem. The star was alleged to
be able to move and stop.

From that let us turn to the Christian Apocrypha-
books banned by Church censorship from services
and religious reading. The Apocrypha reflects man’s
efforts to explain the most dramatic mysteries of life.
These books sometimes stand in direct contradiction
of Church-approved texts.

A familiar one about early Christianity is called
"The Tale About the Three Magi’. The original vers-
ion must have been written in Latin in the middle
of the third century at the earliest, and later trans-
lated into many languages. A 15th-century Byelo-
russian translation made five centuries before the
space era contains a highly unusual interpretation of
the tale. The star, it says, was watched by astron-
omers (this is the actual word used) in many Oriental
countries. Once it appeared at night and "’lit up the
whole of the sky as the sun does.” Then the star
hung over Mount Vans for a whole day, after which
it alighted on the mountain like an eagle.

The text contains a reference to "certain books”
which claim that Christ came down from that star.
"But it was different from the one pictured in our
churches. It had wings, the kind an eagle has, and
many long rays.’’, which sent it moving in a circle
when it descended upon Mount Vans.

This version of the old story unexpectedly introd-
uces a new image and a new idea, both sharply at
variance with the church texts. Without question, the
apocryphal version is fantastic. But it is hardly more
fantastic than the approved canonic version. What
was at the basis of the author’s fantasy? That, too,
is shrouded in mystery.

ANGELS IN FLYING MACHINES.

The Dechany Monastery in Kosovskaya Metehia,
southern Yugoslavia, was built in the first half of the
14th century, and by 1350 contained numerous fresc-
oes on subjects from the Old and New Testaments.

In the spring of 1964 more frescoes were found in
the monastery. The Yugoslav magazine Svet publis-
hed photographs entitled: "Spaceships on the Dec-
hany Crucifix, Sputniks in our frescoes, Could anci-
ent icon-painters have depicted spaceships in Dec-
hany?”’ It did not take a journalist’s imagination to
think up titles like these. Dechany frescoes actually
depict angels flying in spaceships like the present
sputniks.

Two ships are shown flying one after the other
from west to east. Sitting in the lead ship is a man

without an angel’s halo. He holds an unseen ’’control
column” and looks behind him as if watching the
flight of his fellow-spaceman. Sitting in the space-
ship following is another man, who also has nothing
in common with the traditional angel and also has
one hand on the controls’.

Both ships have streamlined bodies. Clearly visible
jets in their wake accentuate the impression of
speed. ’’The saints in the flying machines are in the
position of pilots’, says the magazine.

Angels watching the flight cover their eyes and
ears with their hands and seem to be backing away
for fear of being blinded of deafened. Below, two
groups are pictured, every face portraying surprise,
fear, or perplexity. The central figure represents the
crucified Christ.

The fresco depicting the Resurrection of Christ
looks just as odd. The Messiah looks as if he is in a
rocket which has not yet begun to move, explains
the Yugoslav magazine. Indeed, the vehicle looks
very much like a space rocket, with a two-wing stab-
ilizer in its upper part. With his right hand Christ is
trying to lift aboard the ship one of the people
standing on the ground before starting on his way
to the heavenly kingdom.

Monks at Dechany, to whom experts turned for an
explanation, replied that apparently the drawings of
“ships” are pictures of the Sun and the Moon.
According to New Testament legend, Christ was
crucified during a solar eclipse. But why the ’’sun”
is depicted rising in the west the monks could not
say.

One of the papers on the Dechany miracle refers
to a hypothesis saying that Christ was a man who
came down to Earth from space. The magazine
comments that such ideas are "’overbold’’, that the
hypothesis, if confirmed, would basically alter the
Biblical story about Christ’. The frescoes, it is noted,
showing objects obviously resembling sputniks, ’’baff-
le layman and specialist alike.”

The Dechany ’’Miracle”’ is not unique. An icon in
the Church Archaeology Study of the Moscow Theo-
logical Academy, called The Resurrection of Jesus
Christ and dating back to the 17th century, shows
Christ in a streamlined container which vaguely
resembles a spaceship standing on the ground.
Smoke billows from both sides of the container’s
lower part, enveloping the legs of the angels who
watch from the sidelines. Just as on the Dechany
fresco, Christ’s right hand lifts a man (the church
version identifies him with Adam). Eve waits for her
turn on the other side.

The icon is surely of an apocryphal nature. There
may have been a written version presenting a non-
canonical view of Christ’s resurrection and ascens-
ion, but if there is, nothing is known about it. Poss-
ibly it was destroyed by Church censors or else it
disappeared with time. Or perhaps the manuscript
exists undiscovered, in which case it may have
inspired icon (or mural) painters to present space
episodes. (Continued).

ufo contact 125

to the Conference Special Agencies related to the
subject.

The proposed representation should be headed by
the world’s most highly honored, awarded and res-
pected scientist in the field of Space and Rockets —
the "father of astronautics’ Prof. Dr. Hermann
Oberth. The team of scientists should be completed
according to enclosure No. 1. with highly competent
scientific UFO researchers whose statements can
be screened and verified on the basis of various
documentation media in possession of our world-wide
analytic network, such as; existing records of the
UFO observers, embracing continental documentation
by historical background, statistics, photographs,
motion pictures, and other documentations exhibited
and witnessed by originators, about the UFOs and
their global reconnaissance activities.

As a former international civil servant on your
staff, and founder of the Intercontinental UFO Net-
work, supporting our request, may | call your attent-
ion to the constructive and progressive values of my
proposals, submitted during the last year, to your
cabinet, assisting voluntarily the UFO problem within
the framework of the UN, which have already been
realized during the past 11 months.

1) The PROJECT UN-UFO, the organization scheme
of an international analytic team within your staff,
to keep under control the UFO global surveillance,
and its 135 documentation, has been objected to by
the government of the United States of America as
nonsense”... but in spite of this, the same gov-
ernment, instead of investing money in the investig-
ation at the U.N. has, three months later, invested
300 thousand dollars for the same purpose in the
Colorado University. The U.S. government has cas-
ually been investigating UFO cases, classified as
Confidential’ since 1944, under project names, such
as, Sigma, Grudge, and Bluebook. Valuated back-
wards this represents budgetary expenditures amount-
ing to more millions of dollars.

2) The INTERCONTINENTAL SPACE SECURITY
PACT proposal, submitted to your cabinet on May 10,
1966 has been accepted in part, in that the Articles
No., 1. Il. V. and Par., 1.2.3.4.5. 14., therein have
been transferred to the Governing Principles of
Peaceful Uses of Outer Space Treaty, which was
negotiated in the Outer Space Committee, - a res-
olution adopted by acclamation by the General Ass-
embly last December 19, and signed by 62 nations,
exploring in outer space. The transplanted articles of
the mentioned Security Pact are as follows:

a. earth and earthman security — supreme constit-
utional authority of UN in relation to outer space
in articles No. I.III.V.IX.

. establishment of international responsibility for
damages by exploring nations in articles No. VI.
and VII.

. astronauts to be considered envoys of the UN.,
expressed as "envoys of mankind” in articles
No. V.

. not prohibited of high explosive weapons in
manned space crafts for self defense in outer

space and celestial bodies, in article No. VI.

. all ’’phenomena’”’ observed in space and cel-
estial bodies to be reported to the Secretary
General in article No. V. is exactly an ’’unex-
plained UFO Article’ from article No. V.

The enclosure No. 2. clearly shows, that these
articles were not proposed in the original issues of
the ’’Treaty Draft’ by the United States filed 24
hours before, — while the USSR filed 20 days after
my Space Security Pact proposal, which had been
filed and issued to all the UN Missions on June 27,
1966. See the enclosed letter to the Perm. Mission
of Italy to the UN. /Enclosure No. 2./ (Enclosures
No’s 2 and 3 are not included as we have dealt at
length with these items in previous issues of UFO
CONTACT - Ed.)

In the enclosure No. 3 you will find the constitut-
ional build up for the Intercontinental UFO Observer
& Analytic Network. The Press Release for which,
dated January 11, 1967, was usually silenced as...
"not in the public interest’.

In spite of all this, there has been an increase of
UFO appearances in the past year and a growing
impatience on the part of the public with the gov-
ernments’ policies in this regard. We are convinced
now more than ever that this proposal to accept
information from world famous authorities will meet
with the wholehearted approval of the United Nations.
For the first time perhaps, an opportunity will be
afforded to study first hand the voluminous evidence
that has heretofore been suppressed.

It is a special honor for us to assist the United
Nations through our continental representation in the
UFO problem.

We are awaiting your information regarding our
proposal. In behalf of our continental representat-
ives, | remain

very respectfully yours
signature
Colman VonKeviczky

3 enclosures.

ICUFON ENCLOSURE NO. 1.
The Intercontinental UFO Observer and Analytic
Network proposes to invite, to the Outer Space
Conference, /Sept., 1967, Vienna/ the following:

A. SCIENTISTS.
Prof. Dr. Hermann Oberth internationally acclaimed
rocket scientist, UFO researcher. GERMANY.
Prof. Dr. Gabriel Alvial director of Cosmic Radiation
Institute, Santiago. CHILE.

Prof. Dr. Alexander Kazantsev Soviet radio astron-
omer and archeologist. USSR.

Prof. Dr. Carl Sagan noted astronomer and astro
physicist, member of NASA. USA.

Prof. Dr. Mitrovan Zverer radio astronomer. USSR.

Representative of Colorado University, UFO research
project. USA.

B. SCIENTIFIC RESEARCHERS.
Knut Hammarskjéld_ general director of the intern’1
Air Transport Association. CANADA.

126 ufo contact

Prof. Dr. Allen J. Hynek astronomer, UFO investig-
ator since 20 years at Air Force. USA.

Donald E. Keyhoe US major ret., pioneer UFO res-
earcher, founder of NICAP. USA.

Jacques Vallee mathematician and astronomer of
Northwestern University, Mars Map Project. USA.

C. PIONEER UFO RESEARCHERS IN GLOBAL
COVERAGE.

Arduino Albertini Italian research analyst, editor of
"Clypeus”. SOUTH EUROPE & ASIA MINOR.
Dr. Walter Biihler research analyst investigator,
Pres. of Brazilian UFO Res. Org: SOUTH AME-

RICA & ANTARCTIC.

Ronald Caswell editor of ’7"UFO CONTACT”. Inter-
national research analyst. NORTH EUROPE.

Eng. Leonard G. Cramp noted technical analyst and
technical writer. British Interplanetary Society.

Coral E. Lorenzen founder of the APRO /Aerial
Phenomena Research Organization/. NORTH
AMERICA AND ARCTIC.

Yusuke Matsumura Japanese pilot, UFO expert
photogr. and analyst, Pres. of Cosmic Brotherhood
Ass. FAR EAST - ASIA.

Eng. Aimé Michel French mathematician, scientific
researcher, noted writer. M. EAST, EUROPE.

Hans C. Petersen Danish Air Force major, resear-
cher, co-editor of "UFO CONTACT” bi-monthly.
MIDDLE EUROPE.

Edgar Sievers scientific research analyst. AFRICA.

Brinsley Le Poer Trench pioneer British researcher,
chairman of the Intern’l Sky Scouts. FAR EAST —
OCEANIA.

Karl L. Veit Pres. of DUIST, noted European UFO
analyst, writer-publisher and editor of "UFO Nach-
richten’”’. EUROPE.

D. DOCUMENTATION.

Globally collected documentation should be exhib-
ited and carried out by the Intercontinental UFO
Observer and Analytic Network - classified in three
parts:

1. The UFO Evidence. 2. The Space Ships.

3. The Planetarians.

Ww

A Soviet contribution

IT IS RARE INDEED that we read or hear of the
Russian views on ’’Flying Saucers’’, although, in the
fifties they were referred to as an example of Ame-
rican ’’war psychosis’’. However, in this issue of UFO
CONTACT, you can read an account of recent Soviet
moves regarding the UFO-case. (See ’’Soviet Radar
Spots UFO”’.)

Here, below, we bring you a Russian writer’s acc-
ount of his research into the problems and mysteries
of extraterrestrial visitations. Condensed from the
book "Na Sushe i na more’ — "On Land and at
Sea” — we can see how the writer has followed many
of the same threads of Biblical and pre — History as

have a number of his Western contemporaries. The
author has spent 30 years collecting evidence to
back up his thesis that intelligent beings from outer
space have had contact with our Earth. He has
written two books, ’’Cosmic Reminiscences in Written
Relics of the Past’, and ’’The Evolution of the Univ-
erse and Intelligent Beings.”

With acknowledgements to the ’SPUTNIK” month-
ly digest, Jan. 1967, we present the article in two
parts. Here is Part One, of —

Visitors from outer space
by

Vyacheslav Zaitsev.

Expanding knowledge about the Universe usually
means more puzzles than discoveries. As man un-
ravels each new mystery, he is assailed by fresh
doubts and torments, for he has caught a glimpse
of another mystery lying ahead. For the explorer —
in any field — it is probably this yet undiscovered
territory vaguely seen in the distance that sparks the
search for knowledge.

A report by a Chinese archaeologist startled the
world when it was published in 1965, for he had out
of old bits of knowledge pieced together an amazing
theory of space-ships on a visit to the earth 12,000
years ago. The German magazine, ’’Das Vegetarische
Universum”’, wrote of his research:

"For a quarter of a century archaeologists explor-
ing caves in the Bayan-Kara-Ula Mountains, on the
border of China and Tibet, have been finding old-
looking stone discs covered with unreadable patterns
and hieroglyphs. A total of 716 such discs have been
discovered, apparently dating back several thous-
and years.

"Like a gramophone record, each disc has a hole
in its centre from which a double groove spirals its
way to the circumference. The grooves are not
sound-tracks, but the oddest writing in China and
indeed the rest of the world.”

Archaeologists and decipherers of ancient writing
racked their brains trying to solve the secret of the
spirals. The result of the research by the Chinese
archaeologist was so shattering that the Peking Aca-
demy of Pre-History banned publication of his work.
Eventually permission was obtained and the prof-
essor and his four colleagues published their coll-
ective effort under the intriguing title ‘’Groove
Writing Relating to Spaceships which, as Recorded
on the Discs, Existed 12,000 Years Ago.”

The caves high up in the Bayan-Kara-Ula Moun-
tains are inhabited by the Ham and Dropa tribes —
frail, stunted men averaging four feet two inches in
height. So far they have defied ethnic classification.
In fact, any detailed information about the tribes is
extremely scarce.

When deciphered, one of the hieroglyphs presum-
ably set down by an ancient member of the Ham
tribe read: The Dropas came down from the clouds
in their gliders. Our men, women and children hid in

ufo contact 127

the caves ten times before the sunrise. When at last
they understood the sign language of the Dropas,
they realized that the newcomers had peaceful int-
entions ...”

Another Ham hieroglyph expresses regret over the
loss of the tribe’s own spaceships during a danger-
ous landing in high mountains, and the failure to
build new ones.

In the opinion of Chinese archaeologists, the
Bayan-Kara-Ula hieroglyphs are so mysterious that
their interpretation and use for scientific research
require the utmost care.

To obtain further information, the discs were
scraped free of adhering rock particles and sent to
Moscow for study. Scientists there made two import-
ant discoveries. The discs were found to contain a
large amount of cobalt and other metals — a shaking
discovery. Further investigation revealed that the
discs vibrate in an unusual rhythm, as if they carried
an electric charge or were part of an electric circuit.
The 12,000 year-old discs remain a challenge to
science.

Legends of ancient China say that small, gaunt,
yellow-faced men came down from the clouds, But
earthly tribesmen felt a revulsion for the visitors,
whose enormous heads and extremely thin, weak
bodies made them look ugly, and ’’'some people on
fast horses” beat them.

Reality seems to confirm the legends. In some of
the Bayan-Kara-Ula caves archaeologists and spel-
eologists have found 12,000 year-old vestiges of
graves and skeletons. The remains belong to human
beings with huge craniums and underdeveloped skel-
etons. The Chinese expeditions which discovered
the grounds reported they had found ’’an extinct
species of ape.’”’ But so far as is known apes do not
bury each other in graves or write hieroglyphic sym-
bols on stone discs.

What makes the issue doubly involved is that the
inner walls of the caves are covered in many places
with pictures of the rising sun, the moon, and the
stars, spaced by a multitude of pea-sized dots (poss-
ibly tiny pictures) which seem to be approaching the
Earth in a mountain area.

CELESTIAL EGGS.

Peruvian legend has it that the ancient inhabitants
of Peru were born from bronze, gold and silver eggs
which had fallen from heaven. The tale is cited but
left without comment in Jean Elisee Reclus’ famous
book "La Terre.”

A variant of the egg legend is featured in the
famous Tassili frescoes, which were found in the
heart of the Sahara by a French lieutenant named
Brenand. Shortly afterwards the place was examined
by a French expedition led by Henri Lotte, who later
wrote The Search for the Frescoes of Tassili. In
addition to pictures of animals and hunting scenes,
the frescoes depict strange figures dressed in what
looks like spacesuits and spherical helmets. The
helmets are definitely attached to the suits, which
evoke no associations with ritual headdress or hunt-

ing gear. Nor is there any association with the hunt-
ers who, as some scholars assume, used ostrich egg-
shells for helmets. Lotte called the enigmatic figures
Martians.

Describing the ancient drawings on the cave walls
the French explorer says that one of them depicts
"a man appearing from an egg-shaped object cov-
ered with concentric circles. The object resembles
an egg, or possibly a snail.”

So the Peruvian legend and the Tassili frescoes
seem to have much in common. But the parallel does
not end there. At a later date, in yet another part of
the world, the same subject was treated by ancient
Greek sculptors, certain of whom portrayed Castor
and Pollux of Dioscuria, as well as Helen and Neme-
sis, with remnants of egg-shells on their heads, for
according to Greek mythology they arose from
celestial eggs.

How did the odd idea of man’s birth from an egg
take shape? Perhaps by analogy with birds or fish?
But why falling from the sky? One Latin American
legend says that eggs dropped down from the sky
on dandelions! The absence of any existing inter-
pretation of this art leaves the door open for what
must seem a fantastic assumption: that the legend
of the celestial eggs, like any other myth or legend,
could have originated from bonafide impressions of
an actual event. An ancient man may once have seen
a container with a human being in it descend from
the sky, and imagined that the visitor was emerging
from a celestial egg.

*VISITING CARDS” OF SPACE TRAVELLERS.

During excavations at different times in Japan
archaeologists found figurines (dogu) depicting a
kind of human or anthropoid in odd-looking "space
suits” and with helmets wholly covering their heads.
On the helmets were visible marks of something like
slit-type glasses, breath-filters, antennae, hearing
aids and even nightsight devices.

Reviewing the latest Soviet space achievements,
the German magazine Freie Welt in issue No. 12,
1966, printed a selection of rock drawings and phot-
ographs of dogu under the humorous title, ’’Visiting
Cards?”’, declaring that such drawings and figurines
might be construed as proof that the Earth was once
visited by space beings.

Many similar rock pictures have been discovered
throughout the world. There are pictures of space-
men on cave walls in the Val Comonique, the Swiss
Alps, in Australia, close to Fergana and near the
city of Navoi, in Soviet Central Asia.

Puzzles that may have started with a space visit
are contained in legends and myths. Legends of Au-
stralia, the Near East, South and Central America
and the Far East all tell of the descent of gods from
the sky. They offer food for thought.

THE STAR OF BETHLEHEM.
The phrase "Star of Bethlehem” is twenty cent-
uries old. Some regard it as a product of sheer

RCSA Urs e7y Vog October 3, 1967

Mr. RayRobinson
809 South Stewart Street
Winchester, Virginia 22601

Dear Mr. Robinson:

Your letter of September 27th, with enclosure,
has been received.

The investigation of Unidentified Flying Objects
is not and never has been a matter that is within the investiga-
tive ee on oe ae I can assure you the photograph

: 6 of this Bureau,

Enclosed ind some wathetal ialetion ti rr the pore of
this Bureau which I hope will be of interest to you. Also, the
photograph you forwarded is being returned.

MAILED 19 Sincerely yours,

OCT3 1967 J. Eager +
gar Ho,

COMM - FBI Ver
Piet ul SL lf

Enclosures (3)
Know Your FBI
The Story of the Federal Bureau. of Investigation

NOTE: Correspondent is hot identifiable in Bufiles. The photograph in
question has previously come to the Bureau's attention and is known to
have appeared in a publication in Europe concerning unidentified flying
objectss. A caption undef.the photograph alleges twoWBI Agents are

re i q( 0 leading a 1 from outer space down the street.

‘Pepa i) brn bie A \ ae if
mat Room C_] Tevetype unit ‘ he i % 4

d0H$ia°0-334

he a i
é lift Pes VI ay
oe ly

ie

TRUE COPY

Would you please comment on the enclosed
picture that is marked with an ''X" and return the picture

with your reply. Thank you.

/s/ Ray Robinson

809 S. Stewart St.
Winchester, Va. 22601

dOHSI8 G-93¥

esceees:

19 HY S2 OL 82 4%

WOLoTUId Z

ENCI OSURE C2-

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAY 1962 ED)
oi SEN. ned. No. 7

UNITED STATES Sq: @
Memorandum

, DIRECTOR, FBI

|
GY DALLAS (62-0)
\WY
NIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS;
ANONYMOUS INFORMANT

DALLAS, TEXAS, 10/9/67
INFORMATION CONCERNING

010-107-027

DATE: 10/10/67

SUBJECT:

Enclosed are six copies of an LHM containing information
of interest to the Air Force.

One copy has been furnished to
OSI, Tinker AFB, Oklahoma,
The information in the enclosed LHM was received by
SA EARL O. CULLUM.

No further information is being taken.

2-- Bureau (encls-6) , IU
I - Dallas >

18 OCT €@ 1967

ot) A
., VY
OCT 19 1967

iy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

(0

OWIYAT Gs
TVUANHOUAL

@\OL . GAXaT
DAIMALI“OD VOLT AMAOANL

aolismrotal zoinisiaos M mg to e9iqoo xte o18 beeol
ot badetatut nood fl yqos on0 .99107 trA od OF Fao19tNT te
esmodaslAO ,a4A toAntT , feo

ud bovisoet esw MHI boeolons ods ai aoitsmrotat oA
-MUIIUS .O

.m9xAss. gnioed notismtotai tod

(@-elone) usotus
eailsd
gees

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Dallas, Texas
In Reply, Plogse Refer to October 10, 1967
File No. ,

Re: UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS;
ANONYMOUS INFORMANT
DALLAS, TEXAS.
“OCTOBER 9, 1967

A young white female, who refused to give her name,
appeared at the Dallas FBI Office on October 9, 1967. She
stated she is interested in Unidentified Flying Objects (UFOs)
and has received a quantity of information concerning beings
from outer space. She stated she will not reveal her identity
as she would feel like a fool if this information is not true.
She stated if it is true, however, she will meet with interested
officials and furnish all the information she has, provided
nothing is done to endanger her safety.

She stated in July, 1967, she met a being from another
planet who had assumed earthly form. He gave her certain
information, then he was picked up and departed from the earth
on August 21, 1967. She stated she then received messages from
non-earthly sources in a manner she refused to discuss. She
stated these sources told her of the following:

(1) An antimissile missile was fired at a UFO
over Africa on May 22, 1962, but the UFO
was protected by its "force field."

(2) A UFO was detected 22,000 miles from earth by
radar about August 6, 1967.

(3) A UFO was detected over Antartica August 20,
1967.

(4) A UFO was detected over the "Dewline” in the
past week and was shot down, and beings from
outer space are trying to recover it.
3
Informant would furnish no further details. She stated
if this information is true, she will knéw other information

This document contains neither recommendations
nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property
of the FBI and is loaned to your agency. It and
its contents are not to be distributed outside

your agency. 2 ps 46 yf
ENCLOSURE =

esxoT ,2asi
yoer [

LEO DKTYIT

i ovis
wvoe lk: Ye
(20TU) asosidO gni
egnisd sata 1
ditnobi 19 Isovor
OUTS ef
iw
ead

+ OM 91 sN9

ont to
rtmebiny
tismrotar to
om LLtw oda bots
nolismrots ai t£ Loot
w oe ,s9vewod
oitsmrotat
-viotse ‘sof

at

{3
bo tosak

babivorc ae

one
aH

oiingeb bas qu

»vionet mods onde

been ede

niwollot

evoReL oy
ridin
bodoia
botsije
T9nnsin
sis to ton

“50%

0

bojo939b

suods

b9
esw

29

-8@ifssab
fismrotak sodt

fre

t9qgotq ost
si

ebfetuo

ot boasol
ad to

la

‘rondebao ¢

blot

RB:
botssto10

8

eds ts bors
nik ei ose botste
beviooos ead bas
.998Gge totvo mort
& 9Xif Ie9t biuc o9d2 28
on" ei It ti botste oda
mtut ts efstol

anc et vain

GB

jasup &
ge ofie
Ww
{Is
b
botsze of
bomuees
esw od nodd
oer
iyo
45102

5 bad ow anstg
oi T Barc t
one $2

& ak Bo

imi Fes
i

2a8w

SDET

esw

=

ykal

nrotns

ain

2/U90b
ofeau
Das
eins

noo
odd

tnc9

rai

UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS;
ANONYMOUS INFORMANT

DALLAS, TEXAS

OCTOBER 9, 1967

sé received is true, and will furnish full details. This will
include information regarding the destruction of a moon explorer
vehicle by beings from outer space, and how those beings shot
down the Russian Cosmonaut.

She stated she fears for her life if it becomes known
she contacted officials, as persons who saw UFOs have died
mysteriously in the past. She stated if Air Force officials
want to contact her she can be reached by a message to a telephone
number she has given an FBI Agent, and she will meet officials
at the Dallas FBI Office only.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to Dallas, Texas
File No. October 10, 1967

Re: UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS;
ANONYMOUS INFORMANT
DALLAS, TEXAS
OCTOBER 9, 1967

A young white female, who refused to give her name,
appeared at the Dallas FBI Office on October 9, 1967. She
stated she is interested in Unidentified Flying Objects (UFOs)
and has received a quantity of information concerning beings
from outer space. She stated she will not reveal her identity
as she would feel like a fool if this information is not true.
She stated if it is true, however, she will meet with interested
officials and furnish all the information she has, provided
nothing is done to endanger her safety.

She stated in July, 1967, she met a being from another
planet who had assumed earthly form. He gave her certain
information, then he was picked up and departed from the earth
on August 21, 1967. She stated she then received messages from
non-earthly sources in a manner she refused to discuss. She
stated these sources told her of the following:

(1) An antimissile missile was fired at a UFO
over Africa on May 22, 1962, but the UFO
was protected by its “force field."

(2) A UFO was detected 22,000 miles from earth by
radar about August 6, 1967.

(3) Jae was detected over Antartica August 20,
1967.

(4) A UFO was detected over the "Dewline” in the
past week and was shot down, and beings from
outer space are trying to recover it.

Informant would furnish no further details. She stated
if this information is true, she will know other information

This document contains neither recommendations
nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property
of the FBI and is loaned to your agency. It and
its contents are not to be distributed outside
your agency.

Re: UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS;
ANONYMOUS INFORMANT
DALLAS, TEXAS
OCTOBER 9, 1967

ee received is true, and will furnish full details. This will
include information regarding the destruction of a moon explorer
vehicle by beings from outer space, and how those beings shot
down the Russian Cosmonaut.

She stated she fears for her life if it becomes known
she contacted officials, as persons who saw UFOs have died
mysteriously in the past. She stated if Air Force officials
want to contact her she cam be reached by a message to a telephone
number she has given an FBI Agent, and she will meet officials
at the Dallas PBI Office only.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In o Refeé: Dallas, Texas
pt da eae October 10, 1967

Re: UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS;

A young white female, who refused to give her name,
appeared at the Dallas FBI Office on October 9, 1967. She
stated she is interested in Unidentified Flying Objects (UFOs)
and has received a quantity of information concerning beings
from outer space. She stated she will not reveal her identity
as she would feel like a fool if this information is not true,
She stated if it is true, however, she will meet with interested
officials and furnish all the information she has, provided
nothing is done to endanger her safety.

She stated in July, 1967, she met a being from another
planet who had assumed earthly form. He gave her certain
information, then he was picked up and departed from the earth
on August 21, 1967. She stated she then received messages from
non-earthly sources in a manner she refused to discuss. She
stated these sources told her of the following:

(1) An antimissile missile was fired at a UFO
over Africa on May 22, 1962, but the UFO
was protected by its “force field.”

(2) A UFO was detected 22,000 miles from earth by
radar about August 6, 1967.

(3) A ag was detected over Antartica August 20,
1 .

(4) A UFO was detected over the "Dewline” in the
past week and was shot down, and beings from
outer space are trying to recover it.

Informant would furnish no further details. She stated
if this information is true, she will knéw other information

This document contains neither recommendations
nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property
of the FBI and is loaned to your agency. It and
its contents are not to be distributed outside
your agency.

UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS;
ANONYMOUS INFORMANT

DALLAS, TEXAS

OCTOBER 9, 1967

She received is true, and will furnish full details. ‘This will
inelude information regarding the destruction of a moon explorer
vehicle by beings from outer space, and how those beings shot
Gewn the Russian Cosmonaut.

She stated she fears for her life if it becomes known
she contacted officials, as persons who saw UFOs have died
mysteriously in the past. She stated if Air Force officials
want to contact her she can be reached by a message to a telephone
number she hag given an FBI Agent, and she will meet officiale
at the Dallas PBI Office only.

7 s

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to Dallas, Texas
File No. October 10, 1967

Re: UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS;
ANONYMOUS INFORMANT
DALLAS, TEXAS
OCTOBER 9, 1967

A young white female, who refused to give her name,
appeared at the Dallas FBI Office on October 9, 1967. She
stated she is interested in Unidentified Flying Objects (UFOs)
and has received a quantity of information concerning beings
from outer space. She stated she will not reveal her identity
as she would feel like a fool if this information is not true.
She stated if it is true, however, she will meet with interested
officials and furnish all the information she has, provided
nothing is done to endanger her safety.

She stated in July, 1967, she met a being from another
planet who had assumed earthly form. He gave her certain
information, then he was picked up and departed from the earth
on August 21, 1967. She stated she then received messages from
non-earthly sources in a manner she refused to discuss. She
stated these sources told her of the following:

(1) An antimissile missile was fired at a UFO
over Africa on May 22, 1962, but the UFO
was protected by its "force field."

(2) A UFO was detected 22,000 miles from earth by
radar about August 6, 1967.

(3) A UFO was detected over Antartica August 20,
1967.

(4) A UFO was detected over the "Dewline” in the
past week and was shot down, and beings from
outer space are trying to recover it.

Informant would furnish no further details. She stated
if this information is true, she will knOw other information

This document contains neither recommendations
nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property
of the FBI and is loaned to your agency. It and
its contents are not to be distributed outside
your agency.

UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS;
ANONYMOUS INFORMANT

DALLAS, TEXAS

OCTOBER 9, 1967

Shé received is true, and will furnish full details. This will
include information regarding the destruction of a moon explorer
vehicle by beings from outer space, and how those beings shot
éawn the Russian Cosmonaut.

She stated she fears for her life if it becomes known
she contacted officials, as persons who saw UFOs have died
mysteriously in the past. She stated if Air Force officials
want to contact her she can be reached by a message to a telephone
number she has given an FBI Agent, and she will meet officials
at the Dallas PBI Office only.

‘OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10 s010-107-02
MAY 1982 EDITION
- GSA GEN. REG. NO. 77

-. | “UNITED STATES GQ@gRNMENT >

“Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI DATE: 1/23/68
AC, DALLAS (62-1311) (C)

IDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS
MISCELLANEOUS -
YNFORMATION CONCERNING

There is enclosed for the Bureau e Xerox copy of a
letter dated 11/20/67, from Mr. ROBERT Gy WARDS, 1736 Northaven [%
Court, Arlington, Texas 76010, receiv; by the Dallas Office on
1/19/68 in an envelope postmarked at Arlington, Texas, 1/17/68.

The encl letter reflects the formation of a
subcommittee of th@(National Investigations Committee on Aerial
Phenomena (NICAP)* in the Dallas - Fort Worth area, the purpose

of which organization is to conduct scientific investigation
of finidentified flying objects. ~; YAS

This letter has been acknowledged and a copy of same
has been furnished OSI, Tinker AFB for its information.

The acknowledgement to Mr. EDWARDS pointed out to him that
information concerning unidentified flying objects received by
this bureau is, by requirement, currently furnished to the u. Ss.

Air Force. C44 -,
CF ae

ie

C+ - Bureau (ene¥1)

1 - Dallas 2/ REG. 74 ; pop
RPG: jeg Y : 5 bZ ee Oe y Ge Vos

(3)
EA-LU 2d

Bier 2 1968

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan
s

58 odd tot 4
TAIGOA .1M mort

yd bevisos1 ,OL008T3  asxoT ~anotuntith

taniicA ts boeaArsmt2oq sdaolevas as at
to notismiot os etoofier rostol besaolono onl

3 190 99stimmoD enolissiseoval Isnotish odd to sods immoodue

seoqtug odd ,soxrs dy1OW F1oF eatiasd 9:5 (QASIM). sromonodd

tsgitesval oktisaetoe dJoubsos Xa riesiageyto doidw to

ivit boititaebias to

yqoo s bas boxsbolwontos mood esd tostol Edt
.dotismiotar ett tot GIA st9aAntT .1e0 bodetars) aged esi

tuo badatac 1c T .xK oF taomegbolwondtos oT
bovios atootde iy tinobiau aninresoaoo nofrsagmxotas
ods of bodetarut yi  inometiupst yd .at vested aid
,9010% tis

(f£-f909) sR9-
eaiisd

not:

20 November 1967

Robert G. Edwards
1736 Northaven Court
Arlington, Texas 76010

Request for Information on Sightings of Unidentified Aerial
Phenomena in the Dallas-Ft. Worth Area

1. A subcommittee of the National Investigations Committee on -
Aerial Phenonema, (NICAP), has recently | been established in the Dallas-
Ft: Worth area. NICAP isa private, non-profit organization directed by
Major D. E.Keyhoe,..USMC (Ret) from the National Headquarters in
Washington, D. C. The purpose of the organization is to conduct scientific
investigation of Unidentified Flying Objects. It now has 14, 000 associate
members in 50 states. The organization is not interested in the alleged

psychic, occult, mystical, or religious aspects of UFO phenomena.

vA NICAP subcommittees, of which there are 30 in the United
States, are composed of qualified individuals in technical or investigative
fields, who are selected and appointed by the Washington office.

3. NICAP is currently working closely with the Colorado Project,
a comprehensive study of UFO's begun in November 1966, by a group of
distinguished scientists at the University of Colorado under a U. S. Air
Force contract,

4. The local subcommittee earnestly solicits your support in
reporting to the Committee Chairman any UFO sightings occuring in this
area. It is especially important that the NICAP committee be contacted
immediately in cases of reported UFO sightings where photographs have
been taken or physical evidence remains after the observation.

Robert G. Edwards”
Subcommittee Chairman
Texas Unit #2

Phone CR 5-1784

; Lb y March 19, 1968

Mr, Glenn Evans
Route 4
Waterloo, Illinois 62298

Dear Mr. Evans:

Your letter of March 14th, with enclosure, has
been received.

The investigation of Unidentified Flying Objects
is not and never has been a matter that is within the investiga-
tive jurisdiction of the FBI, I can assure you the photograph
you mentioned does not represent employees of this Bureau.

Sincerely yours,

J. Edgar Hoover

John Edgar Hoover
Director

NOTE: Bufiles contain no record of correspondent. The photograph
in question has previously come to the Bureau's attention and is known
to have appeared in a publication,in Europe concerning an ‘Unidentified
flying (objects. A caption,under the photograph alleges two FBI Agents
are leading a person from outer space down the street.

ED:mew

8) /ayiee

watfogyEa) teveryee unr]

284

now ONIGVEY OSU

G9. id 80 1b MR

TRUE COPY

Dear Sir

My name is Glenn Evans I work for the“United
Saucer Hunter Organization, I am writting this in regard to
a report that the FB.I had captured a saucer occupant this was
published in a flying saucer mag. along with a photo of two
alleged FBI agents and a saucer occupant. is this true? does
the FBI really have a saucer man?

Very truly

/s/

Glenn Evans

U.S.H.O.

UNITED SAUCER HUNTER ORGANIZATION

BOB ZANOTI GLENN EVANS
WFMC RADIO RURAL ROUTE 4
W. VIRGINIA WATERLOO, ILLINOIS

March 18, 1968
GS 038

4 AIRMAIL

10/

Miss Jane Ferry
1304 Descanso\Drive
La Canada, California 91011
Dear Miss Ferry:
I have received your letter of March 15th.

Although I would like to be of assistance, matters
pertaining to Unidentified Flying Objects are not within the
jurisdiction of the FBI.

lam referring a copy of your communication to
the Director of Special Investigations, The Inspector General,
Department of the Air Force, Washington, D. C. 20333 for any
help he is in a position to offer you.

Sincerely yours,

J. Edgar Hoover

NOTE: Correspondent could not identified in Bufiles.
SAW:mer (3)

Q@4
nOO¥ ONIGVAY-0,998

Wend tL € ol Mh

sae

TRUE COPY

Dear Sir, FLY SH

Iam a student at Glendale City College in Glendale,
California. This semester I'm doing a research paper on U. F. O.'s.
I was wondering if you could send me any information you might have
regarding the U. F. O. controversy. I would appreciate it very much
if you could send me this information before March 20th as I would
like to get started as soon as possible. Thank you very much for your
time.

Sincerely yours,
Jane Ferry tics {
1304 Descanso Drive
La Canada, Calif. 91011
P.S. If you can't possibly get the information to me by the 20th,

I would appreciate it if it was sent to me as close to that date as
possible.

REC 58

st 403)

ROSIE IY = Gok BEF

CHANGED TO

MAY 291968

BZ ar VSS

March 19, 1969

John Edgar Hoover

United States Department of Justice
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Washington 25, D.C.

Dear Mr, Hoovers

December 7, 1963, I observed in the sky at Moorestown, New Jersey, an
umasual object and its unusual behavior, On December 8, 1963, just
2h hours later at Elkton, Maryland, the Pan American Aircraft with 73
passengers and a crew of eight perished when this aircraft exploded in
mid air and crashed,

I sent a tape recording of the observation I had made on December 7,
to Mr. J. Edgar Hoover and associated this object with the crash of
this plane. Mr. Hoover informed me that the Civil Aeronautics Board
was investigating this disaster and what I had sent to him would be
forwarded to them, the C.A.B.

ff
In the month of March, 1965, the C.A.B., released a report that thi/s!/
accident and cause was due to a lightning strike.

I protested to Senator Case of New Jersey. Senator Case mailed me
the official report by the C.A.B., along with a letter by a Mr. John
Dregge, Director Community and Congressional Relations.

Upon reading the Official C.A.B. report on this accident and also
this letter I have come to the conclusion that neither the C.A.B. or
the writer of this letter know what they are talking about and have
missed the point completely.

I claimed that the object which I seen was laying air mines and
that this aircraft was destroyed by contact with one of these mines.

To substantiate my claim I would refer you to page 8 line 20 to line

2h inclusive of this report File #1-0015. Boeing 707-121 N709PA Pan
American World Airways, Inc., near Elkton, Maryland, December 8,

636 a
phe pen <2-18074. 170

25 MAR‘27 i969

CHRON ENC

APR4 1969

ga wy tt Lhe

+4 (

Ap b9/ Bap oureyrd
B96}0 | Ud¥ SNOON!

age 8 line 20 to line 25 inclusive reads as follows:

(Metal splatters on the leading edge of the horizontal stabilizer were
identified by spectrographic analysis as being formed from two
different aluminum alloys, However, these alloys could not be
identified since the chemical composition of the deposits did not
conform to any alloy used in the airplane. The long axis of the
deposits varied from 18 degrees inboard to degrees outboard.)

On July 18, 1964, I made another observation, the details of which
I sent to Harvard College Observatory, Cambridge, Mass. (This
sighting was Astronomical not a man made object), a copy of their
return letter is enclosed,

Somehow both of these observations had something in common, the
color. I proceeded to experiment and have arrived at the following
conclusions, after several hundred experiments had taken place.

I have bought books on Astronomy and also books on Flying Saucers.
I know that this object was not astronomical in any way nor was it a

Flying Saucer,

This object was a cleverly design missle camouflaged to appear as a
Meteor or as a Flying Saucer.

However, this missle failed to operate as planned that is how I tas
able to see the complete details of the color and also the design,
which I furnished to the government. I also know why this design
was used and also why the colors were arranged as they were. My
experiments proved this.

Thru my experiments I have been able to determine the followings

Where they get the tremendous speed from.

The wobbling effect they have on occasion.
Appearing to osGillate about their vertical axis,
Why they make no noise, condensation, or exhaust.
Whoshing and wheezing, humming noise on occasions.
Different colors they have.

Pulsating light.-Luminous appearance,

Different forms and shape.

These objects are constantly being sent over both the North and South
Americas by Russia, Anyone seeing these objects are instantly
responsive as to a flying saucer, Subjected to ridicule if this be
mentioned to any one, and/or reported to the authorities,

Russia is « aware of this fact and has capitalized upon this fact.
They have in this way been able to penetrate our Radar System undetected.

To conclude:

The present situation can be blamed upon the various governmental
agencies who in the past have scoffed at and ridiculed people who
have reported these sightings.

Now we are about to pay with 60,000,000 American lives or more.
"Some price",

Our one hope is that Russia and China will go to war against one another,
This then will give us time to created an effective and efficient Radar
system that cannot be penetrated,

I am not a Phophet of Doom, just an American Citizen who is concerned
about the future of America.

Sincerely yours 9
duetof Uae Ape
A IL oe’

dosnt
£ ‘>
A copy of this letter is being sent to the £10 ng people:

President Nixon f ee
J. Edgar Hoover

Senator Case of New Jersey

Senator Charles H. Percy of Illinois

Melvin Laird, Secretary of Defense

HARVARD COLLEGE OBSERVATORY

CAMBRIDGE 38, MASSACHUSETTS
July 28, 1964

Mr. Edward A. Stewart, Jr.
152 Mount Holly Avenue
Mount Holly, New Jersey

Dear Mr. Stewart:

The object you saw was a bright meteor, sometimes
called a "fireball" or a"bolide". Almost all very
bright meteors are small bodies moving in orbits rather
like the orbits of asteroids, and probably are fragments
of asteroids. The direction of motion of your meteor
is consistent with that sort of orbit. A good many
bright meteors strike the earth each day, but most go
unnoticed. We have received another report of the same
meteor from Wilmington, Delaware.

I am sending your observation to the Moonwatch
Division of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
here in Cambridge, which has a continuing program for
analysis of visual observations of bright meteors.
Since it is very rarely possible for the professional
astronomer to observe these meteors, most of what is
known about them depends on this sort of lucky chance.

Sincerely yours,

fiheol 7h. be Tionthe

Richard B;¥Southworth

May 7, 1969

Mr. Lon M7 me Ls
Eastern Representative
tional Investigations Committee
on Unidentified Flying Objects
717 Gless Avenue
Belleville, New Jersey 07109

Dear Mr. Cerame:

I have received your letter of April 30th
concerning an article you are preparing on Aerial Phenomena.

Although I would like to be of assistance, matters
pertaining to Unidentified Flying Objects and Aerial Phenomena
are not within the jurisdiction of the FBI. I regret we are unable
to be of help.

Sincerely yours,
J, Edgar Hoover
NOTE: Our files contain no information identifiable with correspondent,

JCF :pls, (5)

MAILED 10
MAY 7 1969

COMM-FBI

dOHSI8 O-938

Mes at

Ane y r*
AG, HUTA OO] 2 ow

National Investigations Committee
ON UNIOENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS
LON M. CERAME - EASTERN REPRESENTATIVE

77 Gless Avenue
Belleville, N. J. 07109 Phone: 759-4036

April 30, 1969

Federal Bureau of Investigation
Washington, D.C. 20535

Attention: Director

Sir:

I am doing an article for an Air Force megazine concerning Aerial
Phenomenon and other so-called flying objects.

Z
To help me out, I would like to know if the Bureau has ever received
any such reports concerning the sightings or investigations of such

objects. If so, would it be possible to send me some reports for use
in my article.

Very truly yours,

Eastern Rep. NICOUFO

‘OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10 5010-106
MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

Mr. Gale \\\. | E: 5/16/69
FROM W. V. Clevelan

SUBJECT: FORREST E7\ WOOD
4267 E. Compton Boulevard
Compton, California
Telephone No. 635-6372
INFORMATION CONCERNING

Mr. Wood telephonically contacted the Bureau at
12:50 a.m. 5/16/69 and spoke with SA Stephen F. McInerney,
Special Investigative Division.
Sevctt-
~Wood stated he is a former CIA Agent and wanted
.to report to the Director that recently he has been seeing
Ofilyin jobjects. He requested that the Director call him on
69 concerning this matter. He was advised that
Mr. Hoover would be unavailable.

From Wood's tone of voice it appeared he was
intoxicated. He advised that he was recently discharged
as a patient from the psycho ward of a Veteran's hospital. | |

Information in Bureau indices (66-3182-8679) 2
indicates individual possibly identical with captioned
subject called Bureau 5/1/69, at which time he rambled
about numerous subjects and his speech indicated he had
been drinking. At that time no record identifiable with
Wood was located in Bureau files.

ACTION: For information. A check is being made with CIA
to determine if they have a former agent identical with Wood.*

oe 63 V—
Miss Holmes e cam iit 47a.
Mr. DeLoach * Liaison Agent Papich caused complete

Mr. Bishop search of CIA indices regarding Wood
Mr. Gale with negative results. WVC:pnh

Mr. Cleveland 9 1969
Mr. McInerney f op 108 10 MAY |1
SFM: jb, d _—_ — jt

2

Su, y 26 1969

May 21, 1969

he.

below

(U

Say:

Mr. Lar hens
EX-100 Route 12, Box 206

Del City, Oklahoma 73115
Dear Mr. Stephens:
Mr. Hoover read your letter received on May 19th.

He asked that I advise you that the FBI has no infor-
mation it can send to you regarding the rumors you have heard. He
also asked that I furnish you the enclosed publications concerning

our organization.

A copy of your communication is being forwarded to

the Office of Special Investigations, Department of the Air Force,
Washington, D. C., to which its contents may be of interest.

Sincerely yours,

+9. Soha Se
Helen W. Gandy
Secretary

MAY 2 11969
COMM-FB}

Enclosures (2)
Know Your FBI
99 facts about the FBI Yb

1 - Oklahoma City - Enclosure
Attention SAC: Correspondent is not identifiable in Bufiles.

NOTE: A copy of correspondent's letter is being furnished to the Office
of Special Investigations, Department of the Air Force, by form.

DCL:llk (4) “ Li é J -,
a | uv

4
¥ 94
wat, Roow'L_vreugrye unit LI U

a

TRUE COPY

May 14, 1969 Rt. 12 Box 206
Del City, Okla. 73115

Federal Bureau of Investigation
Penn. Ave. & 9th. NW.
Wash., D.C. 19806

Dear Sirs; / VA

There currently are rumors over the grapevine and
in print that suggest men with oriental features wearing dark clothes go
around terrorizing people who have had close-up views of UFO's.
It is also rumored these creatures have impersonated armed forces officers
and FBI investigators. They are supposed to ride around in black or dark
automobiles that either have old licence tags or none at all. Several are
reported to have attemped to run down witnesses of UFO sightings, made
disturbingyalmost macabre phone calls, silenced several investigators who
were supposed to have learned some dark secret about extraterrestial craft
or mission plans and opened mail, tapped telephones and even taken pictures
of several homes where UFO witnesses lived. , f

4

Can you give me any information on such rumors? Or can you

refer me to a source whose facilities can answer my questions?

this information will help settle some disturbing questions
the readers of my articles. Personally I am not sure at all whether I can
fully accept these rumours as facts. I need more information.

Any information you supply can ease the worries of people
who feel that the objects unknown they see in the sky may portend the visit
of a mysterious visitor.

. Yours Truly,
g® (ily 62-33 fay

/s/ Mr. Larry-Stephens=~ 7-7»

P.S. If there are any pamphets covering tht “FEY 'RGictions you feel I
will need, please send them along.

es

e

Re.12 Box 206
ak Cty, Ohh.
Tas

(Pie Dt Pee Ae
Wak. OC. 19906

OC alioage: rene eerie ea

acme
horr-upaariewre of UFOW. Deri aber rumowd His
oumornt at abl, Auk ax pocticl Mo have attinped Le
> imma as nctantat tail ULO ag ftingas, aneadle chatinbong
Abnnroat vrotibie phone caller, dleneed several smsati-

‘a penicl smailed, tapped Llephontes ornel Luend HAE)
Lured,

By. WE 2s 6 61MM

D é

a etn pol en te na
© Aisatiost ace apie SCLC Gat, a. NN ecrommen

G7L-3 creamy ppanpphite coverong He FBI 4)

eclassified Case: NW#
0986 Date: 04-14-2026

‘Bxoupt From
eee peciass ification Ingerse

October 13, 1969

Tf 4 75™
a

Mr. Paul Brassington
UFO Astronomer Club
94 Dreyer Drive

Ajax, Ontario, Canada

Dear Paul:

The letter from you, ani Stephen Smith and Gary
_/ Hargreaves was received on October 8th. Sey ag
4

The investigation of Unidentified Flying Objects is not
and never has been a matter that is within the investigative jurisdiction
of the FBI. I can assure you the photograph you mentioned does not
represent employees of this Bureau.

4 WA \ Enclosed is some material relating to the work of this
Bureau which I hope will be of interest to you.

Sincerely yours,
MAILED 4 Ha
OCT 131969 - Edgar Hoover

COMM-FBI

Enclosures (6)
3 copies of The Story of the FBI
3 copies of 99 Facts About the FBI

NOTE: Correspondents are not identifiable in Bufiles. The photograph in
question has previously come to the Bureau's attention and is known to have
appeared in a publication in Europe concerning unidentified flying objects.

A caption under the photograph alleges two FBI Agents are leading a person
from outer space down the street.

Jrive

reyer

2

74

Club

Ajax untario

Astronom

Canada

UFO Astronomer
94. Dreyer Drive
Ajax,Ontario.
Canada.

Dear Sirs,

) Our club is very interested in th
study of “Unidentified Flying Objects. We wer
studying a magazine called U"0'S A Pictorial
and on one of the pagesthere was a picture
of a supposedly man from outer space who was
being held by two men.Above the picture it
Stated the the two men were FBI agents who
had captured this man and were walking down b
an American street.It had also stated that
the picture had first been published in an
MMAHTAAKGe rman newspaper.There was no other
additional information.We would appreciate it
if you would send us a letter telling us whee
-ther this is true or untrue.Could you please
Send us the information.

Ne have three members in our club they
are Steve Smith,13,GaryHHargreaves,12,and
Paul prassinZvdiig ise

sicereily Yours tne
embers of the UFO
Astronomers. y

Pal,  corasngion
t Ls ime pt 4

RZ OCT 18 i969

a.

uy \
sderal Bureau of Investiektion

Washinton

m D.C.

OL. Wi <€ 0) G2 Nor

an

June 20, 1972
¢

THE PENTAGON
Washington, D.C.

Dear Sirs:

4

In approximately seven months or.January, 1972, certain copies of top-secret
documents shall be sent to the New York Times as well as two other newspapers.
These documents are related to,and will be an ostentation of t involvement of the
pentagon in the controversial "Unidentified Flying Objects" or "Elying Saucer"'
subject. It will show that not~only the U.S. Air Force was involved in UFO research
but the other military branches as well.

Analysis and the actual conclusions of the classic UFO cases shall be revealed.
This shall be accomplished by zeroxed documents and photographs that General
Wolfe had reviewed when he was head of the Army's UFO support program in the
Pentagon during the Eisenhower years.

Sorry, but it is concluded here that this is the best course to take because
we feel that the secret UFO investigations are parallel in nature to the Times- ]
Pentagon Vietnam controversy. If we are wrong in taking this action, time will tell

pe Aus 3 1971

—— or

Ce Ki ¢ cael Kelirned
bs Bes, ~ NO RCT COMED

2224/q1 Axper (LO
Blauco 197,

»

February 23, 1972

akC-3 Gy . GY &SGU/ YD.
Miss Mary Beth Martine

Box 463, Oak Street

Westmoreland City, Pennsylvania 15692
Dear Miss Martine:

I regret that I am unable to comment as you requested

3)
in your letter of February 15th. The investigation of Unidentified

Flying Objects is not and never has been a matter that is within the
investigative jurisdiction of the FBI.
Sincerely yours,

J, Edgar Hoover

John Edgar Hoover
Director

NOTE: Bufiles reflect no record of correspondent.
MLN;je (3)
fs

“6 (Q) MAR 2

MAIL ROOM [] | TELETYPE uNIT C—

TRUE COPY

Box 463 Oak Street
Westmoreland City, Pa.
15692

February 15, 1972

Dear Mr. Hoover,

I would please like your opinion on U. F.O's. whether or
not you think they exist or not.

Sincerely,

Mary Beth Martine

5

true copy “5d,

»

a US mio mae
Sway Ss). 1992

Cron rae as a ry
ae oN ae Ne Pee A

mA

aoe AMAL shy
HER

Boe ay

| 34

DEPARTS QNT OF THE ARMY

OFFICE OF +H HIEF OF STAFF FOR INTELLIGENCE,
WAS MMF TON. 0.C. 20310

DAMI-DOT-S _ , Pate: 23 July 1971

-
X] FBI Attn: LNO MR. GRARSW/MAY, RM 1012, 9th & D

To: [

{ ] CIA Attn: LNO

[ ] USSS Attn: LNO

[ ] clap

{ ] Nis

{ ] 0st

[ ] USAINTC Attn: Dir of Inves
[ ] USATRR

[ ]DIA Attn: DS-6A

{ ] USASA Attn: Dir of. Security]
[

Attached forwarded for your inform
Attached forwarded for appropriate action.
No further action contemplated by this office.

Your office will be kept informed of status
of this case.

Cys Furnished: ALFRED G. KEGGINS
LTC, GS
eee CHIEF, CI DIVISION

ACSI. Form 343
21 Jan 71

The office symbols for OACSI
which will appear in AR 340-12
are obsolete due to a reorgani-
zation of OACSI. Please use
office symbol that appears on
this correspondence in
correspondence addressed to
this office.

om OT

OPTIONAL FORM No. 10
MAY 1982 EDITION
GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STAT. ‘GOVERNMENT
Memorandum

ACTING DIRECTOR, FBI DATE: 3/20/73
SAN ANTONIO (62-0)

DAVE T. OZANNE
INFORMATION CONCERNING "
a ,

00: SAN ANTONIO Fl D1

Enclosed for the Bureau are four copies of an
LHM reflecting information provided by Sgt. PAUL STIGLIANO,
United States Air Force, Recruiting Depot, Waco, Texas
concerning the subject. One copy of LHM is also being
furnished to Dallas.

This information is being furnished to the Bureau
for proper dissemination to the military due to the partic-

>
ular request made by the subject concerning UFO (unidentifie ey
flying objects).

Interview of Sgt. STIGLIANO was conducted by SA
RICHARD T. JESINGER of the FBI in Waco, Texas on 3/9/73.

——= eee

22 mar 261973 |

ee ees Set

- Bureau (Encl. 4) ©
- Dallas (Encl. 1)
1 - San Antonio

REVAIe apg fr i

ad Mypantee
Pe “ke nak Agered chk ¢ co
d

owe 273 IMS
1973

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

are [ixonsr \ohrceens

5010-108-02

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

v@ {D STATES DEPARTMENT or@srice

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
San Antonio, Texas

March 20, 1973

DAVE T. OZANNE

On March 9, 1973, Sergeant Paul Stigliano, United
States Air Force, Recruiting Office, Professional Building,
Waco, Texas, advised that a man identifying himself as Dave
T. Ozanne contacted the night-shift supervisor at the Waco
Tribune Newspaper, and inquired regarding any information
the newspaper could be able to furnish him concérning any
unidentified flying objects observed in the Waco, Texas area.
Ozanne had identified himself as a Captain in the United States
Air Force. Ozanne was described as having on an Air Force
uniform with a chaplain's badge on the uniform. Ozanne also
had in his possession at the time a folder marked Top Secret
which contained pictures of various military installations.
No specific information concerning these photos could be

provided by Sergeant Stigliano.

Sergeant Stigliano stated that when Ozanne was
informed that they could provide no information to him he
left his card which contained his name and the following
information:

AVE '-ft INEM
Address: 3311 Bowser, Apartment 209,
Dallas, Texas
Phone: 526-5908

Sergeant Stigliano advised that the individual did
not act in any strange manner, and did not attempt to obtain
anything other than information from the newspaper. Sergeant
Stigliano advised that this information was being furnished
to the proper authorities only for information purposes as
they do not suspect any unlawful activity.

This document contains neither recommendations nor
conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and
is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be
distributed outside your agency.

ENCLOSU:

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

U Ya STATES DEPARTMENT OF Ore

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
San Antonio, Texas

March 20, 1973

DAVE T. OZANNE

On March 9, 1973, Sergeant Paul Stigliano, United
States Air Force, Recruiting Office, Professional Building,
Waco, Texas, advised that a man identifying himself as Dave
T. Ozanne contacted the night-shift supervisor at the Waco
Tribune Newspaper, and inquired regarding any information
the newspaper could be able to furnish him concerning any
unidentified flying objects observed in the Waco, Texas area.
Ozanne had identified himself as a Captain in the United States
Air Force. Ozanne was described as having on an Air Force
uniform with a chaplain's badge on the uniform. Ozanne also
had in his possession at the time a folder marked Top Secret
which contained pictures of various military installations.
No specific information concerning these photos could be
provided by Sergeant Stigliano.

Sergeant Stigliano stated that when Ozanne was
informed that they could provide no information to him he
left his card which contained his name and the following
information:

Address: 3911 Bowser, Apartment 209,
per Dallas, Texas
Phone: 526-5908

Sergeant Stigliano advised that the individual did
not act in any strange manner, and did not attempt to obtain
anything other than information from the newspaper. Sergeant
Stigliano advised that this information was being furnished
to the proper authorities only for information purposes as
they do not suspect any unlawful activity.

This document contains neither recommendations nor
conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and
is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be
distributed outside your agency.

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

U . 3 D STATES DEPARTMENT OF Osrce

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

San Antonio, Texas

March 20, 1973

DAVE T. OZANNE

On March 9, 1973, Sergeant Paul Stigliano, United
States Air Force, Recruiting Office, Professional Building,
Waco, Texas, advised that a man identifying himself as Dave
T. Ozanne contacted the night-shift supervisor at the Waco
Tribune Newspaper, and inquired regarding any information
the newspaper could be able to furnish him concerning any
unidentified flying objects observed in the Waco, Texas area.
Ozanne had identified himself as a Captain in the United States
Air Force. Ozanne was described as having on an Air Force
uniform with a chaplain's badge on the uniform. Ozanne also
had in his possession at the time a folder marked Top Secret
which contained pictures of various military installations.
No specific information concerning these photos could be
provided by Sergeant Stigliano.

Sergeant Stigliano stated that when Ozanne was
informed that they could provide no information to him he
left his card which contained his name and the following
information:

Address: 3911 Bowser, Apartment 209,
5 Dallas, Texas
Phone: 526-5908

Sergeant Stigliano advised that the individual did
not act in any strange manner, and did not attempt to obtain
anything other than information from the newspaper. Sergeant
Stigliano advised that this information was being furnished
to the proper authorities only for information purposes as
they do not suspect any unlawful activity.

«.

This document contains neither recommendations nor
conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and
is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be
distributed outside your agency.

0

October 25, 1973

ony |

M
1 East Francis Avenue
La Habra, California 90631

ir.
30

Dear Mr. Praide:

In reply to your letter received on October 23rd,
the investigation of Unidentified Flying Objects is not and
never has matter that is within the investigative
jurisdiction of the FBI. Therefore, I cannot comment as you
suggested. I regret that a 1rable to be of assistance in
this instance.

Sincerely yours,
C. M. Kelley
Clarence Kelley
Di or
NOTE: Correspondent is not identifiable in Bufiles.

jkb:cme (3)

Assoc. Dir,
Asst. Dir

Admin.

Comp. Syst

Ext. Affoirs
Files & Com. __
Gen. Inv.

Ident.

Laboratory —
Plan. & Eval.

tn Co
Talon PLO NOV 9 iy a
GINO | ROOM [Z_3 ELETYPE UNIT [_] a

Director See'y —_

KON FRAIDE

Se re <= IBo ©. FRANCISAM
LA HABRA; CALI FORNG
THURSDAY, OCTOREE 18/973

Ln_babKa bal,
DY ile

Sy a Sd al Ae (Fe THESE
Set See
Aye SEEN

eA pS ee eit 3S
SE Wrou yrs belies
SreauHTIngcs [IN THE
or -EA) SeeTHeee
s(GHUNGs RS(eHT Heres
eA eS EAE eae CALIEOR NIA. WHAT
E= CRESS eae [Ps asl) Soke eee SL Seo Sie et
7 Heese FAST RTOVING TA A iNes * =: bee
r ) Se Ae THESE SIGHTINGS ARCHOS Gas
(Cyc yes Mamas a STrates FROM THE ATLANTIC.
Sj SOCAG! s:/= ey ae ae! COAST AN
Cee AO Se aw 2 Pian CO Seer
p to PRESIDENT AU N,
MAYBE He ENOWS Vai Een aa Mise es ees
SCARING Geert Seo. iN THIS
cowTer THe me ei Sew eS
(a a os) = Look OUT Eore troee of THE

S peer NGS Seer ABOUND WAS Hah
lee aC ae eae

EAS XD REG KOE BH? O
Your ANSWES + HANE YO —— ’

(Cs ee Sa
4 i al
KU MErPROCUS

& ea
Cease ge a at
Be RErPoeTe

“1 ae ie ee fa WB oct-301973
Youss Silieses!
Roz Azach _}\\

@ ae See a ee OR ees rot

April 15, 1974
1 - Mr. Mintz

a

Apartment 2

2904 South 13th Road
Arlington, Virginia 22204

Dear Mr. Bryant:
Your letter was received on April 3rd.

In response to your request for information from
FBI files regarding your activities in the unidentified
flying objects research field, please be advised that we
have no such information in our files except copies of prior
correspondence with you and a record of your September, 17,
1963, interview. Therefore, we have no documents to send
to you and cannot further comply with your request.

Sincerely yours,

&. M. Kelley
Clarence M. Kelley
Director

1 - Norfolk - Enclosure

Attention: Special Agent Steve Boyle.
1 - Bufile 62-115530 (FOI-REPLIES
NOTE: Bufiles reflect prior correspondence with Bryant regard-
ing UFO's of which copies have been made and are being furnished
to him. Data pertaining to the interview is contained in
an incoming airtel from Norfolk dated 9/24/63. SA Steve Boyle
of the Norfolk Office was contacted and apparently the interview
of Bryant in 1963 was initiated because of voluminous correspon-
dence which Bryant had sent to Federal and military as well as
law enforcement agencies.

MAILED 20 \ 7
APR151974 | “ON

Intell, FBI

Loborotory

es
Nie?

TELETYPE UNIT [

ABIARY 30 :

h} ive
3° fh roe
; C| 4d

oa aw
aaa

hLGt Hd to sss
ye

We
on? )

290 South 13th Road - Apt 2
Arlington, Virginia 22204
March 31, 1974

Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Nashington, D. C.

Peg ae

On September 17, 1963, Mr. John S. Castles, an FBI agent of the Newport

Dear Sir:

News, Va. contingent, visited me at my place of employment (Ft. Eustis, Va.)
to interview me as to my interest in the subject of unidentified flying
objects (UFO's). I understand that Mr. Castles prepared a formal report of

that interview.

Since President Nixon recently has expressed his intention to assure that
the privacy and civil liberties of individual citizens receive the protection
they deserve under our form of government, it is in the spirit of that assurance
that I respectfully request that you send me a copy of Mr. Castles' report along

with a copy of all other documents in your files pertaining to my activities in

the UFO-research field. - V2 ¢ }
RECO (/ ¥324Y7¢_T 4
EX-11] Yours eon, = 4 we:

Sr Mra a 1A 16 12

canons met 5 SETS

Larry W. Bryant =~

Copy furnished to: Director, Washington, D. C. Office, American Civil Liberties Unien

gs, N\A phe’

4 Ea (Revs 6-26-73)
r Federal Bureau of Investigation

Type2 of Refer
LC AMrcgu

[J Buildur
vf wer

Subjec
Birthd
Address

—— “hig

sive)

FROM

SUBJECT:

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10 so10-108
MAY 1962 EDITION
GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm. —

Memorandum 1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall ee

Comp. Syst. I

‘Mr. W. R. Wannallyi DATE: 8/22/74 rice 2 Ce

Gen. Inv.

aa

:T, J. Smith > ee
Plana’ Evol.

MILITARY INQUIRY REGARDING{UNIDENTIFIED

OBJECT THAT FELL FROM S| MILWAUKEE, Leas Con,

WISCONSIN 8/21/74; ; ee:

INFORMATION CONCERNING . acs

At 12:07 a.m., 8/22/74, Security Patrol Clerk (SPC)
Charles F. Halty, Intelligence Division received a call via
Command Center telephone from a Major Horn, NMCC (National
Military Command Center). Major Horn asked for any informa-
tion the FBI might have concerning a report that an unidentifie
object which fell from the sky at Milwaukee, Wisconsin, had
been recovered by local police and turned over to the Milwau
Office of the FBI.

No information available at Intelligence Divisio;
Night Duty Supervisor Harry E, Morris, Jr., called SPC
Koller, Milwaukee Office, who advised an unidentified objec
had been recovered by Milwaukee police at about 5:55 p.m.,
8/21/74, but that it was still in possession of police. He
said a Captain Wills of the Milwaukee Police Department had
called the Milwaukee FBI Office to report the recovery. Very
little was known about the object which was described as about
13 x 8 x 5 inches, metallic in substance and color, jagged on

| one side and had an “internal heat source." Police notified
| military locally.

Above information was relayed to Major Horn with
suggestion he might like to contact Captain Wills, Milwaukee
Police Department.

;
This matter received United Press Internatio ‘LA
Coverage on morning of 8/22/74. c

ACTION: REC- 101

For information. ‘s Ze ey

HEM; ldf
(2)2 3
\ Heel

0 wse2810%

—-
~
=

o

=
ww
an
~

143y
a4

jinjAl@ SONSDTTISING
3A)

3¥

Lt 27 ong} hd ® 1-97 ony

DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR onl

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20330

A

Dear Mr. Malmfeldt:

This office recently received a public inquiry regarding
UFOs, referred to us from the Buxeau. As the inclosed fact
sheet indicates, the Ai Project Blue Book" investi-
gation of UFOs was terminated on cember 17, 1969, and all
related documentation was turned o to the National Archives
and Records Service.

The inquirer referred to us has been apprised of these
events. Hopefully, the inclosed fact sheet will be of help
in responding to any future inquiries on this subject.

Sincerely,

_ ee

H. A. McCLANAHAN, Lt Col, USAF
Chief, Civil Branch

Community Relations Division
Office of Information

Attachment

Federal Bureau of Investigation
Attention: Mr. Malmfeldt, Room 7825
Washington, D. C. 20535

REC-26

¢ ut
og LLM ue
py Mie

116

gn

Lgl Wd §S |

SUROL BUYOO-Usdae

=
a.

‘There are a number of universities and professional
scientific organizations such as the American Association for
the Advancement of Science, which have considered UFO
phenomena during periodic meetings and seminars. In addition,
a list of private organizations interested in aerial phenomena
may be found in Gale's Encyclopedia of Associations (Edition 8,
Vol I, pp. 432-3). Such timely review of the situation by
private groups insures that sound evidence will not be over-
looked by the scientific community.

2 Atchs
1. Sighting Summary
2. UFO-related Materials

r

UFO FACT SHEET

On December 17, 1969 the Secretary of the Air Force
announced the termination of Project Blue Book, the Air Force
program for the investigation of UFOs.

The decision to discontinue UFO investigations was based
on an evaluation of a report prepared by the University of
Colorado entitled, "Scientific Study of Unidentified Flying
Objects;" a review of the University of Colorado's report by
the National Academy of Sciences; past UFO studies; and Air
Force experience investigating UFO reports during the past
two decades.

As a result of these investigations and studies, and
experience gained from investigating UFO reports since 1948,
the conclusions of Project Blue Book are: (1) no UFO reported,
investigated, and evaluated by the Air Force has ever given
any indication of threat to our national security; (2) there
has been no evidence submitted to or discovered by the Air
Force that sightings categorized as "unidentified" represent
technological developments or principles beyond the range of
present day scientific knowledge; and (3) there has been no
evidence indicating that sightings categorized as "unidentified"
are extraterrestrial vehicles.

With the termination of Project Blue Book, the Air Force
regulation establishing and controlling the program for invest-
igating and analyzing UFOs was rescinded. All documentation
regarding the former Blue Book investigation has been per-
manently transferred to the Modern Military Branch, National
Archives and Records Service, 8th and Pennsylvania Avenue,
Washington, D.C. 20408, and is available for public review
and analysis.

Attached for your information is the Project Blue Book
sighting summary for the period 1947-1969. Also included is
a listing of UFO-related materials currently available.

Since the termination of Project Blue Book, no evidence
has been presented to indicate that further investigation of
UFOs by the Air Force is warranted. In view of the consider-
able Air Force commitment of resources in the past, and the
extreme pressure on Air Force funds at this time, there is
no likelihood of renewed Air Force involvement in this area.

DOK - £620 és = a
BRCLOSUKe 7

é.

TOTAL UFO SIGHTINGS, 1947 - 1969

TOTAL SIGHTINGS UNIDENTIFIED

122 12
156 7
186 22
210 27
169 22
1,501 303
509 42
487 46
545 24
670 14
1,006 14
627 10
390 12
557 14
591 13
474
399
562
887
1,112
937
375
146

12,618

4
”
UFO MATERIALS

Scientific Study of Unidentified Flying Objects. Study
conducted by the University of Colorado under contract
F44620-76-C-0035. Three volumes, 1,465 p. 68 plates.
Photoduplicated hard copies of the official report may
be ordered for $6 per volume, $18 the set of three,

as AD 680:975, AD 680:976, and AD 680:977, from the
National Technical Information Service, U.S. Department
of Commerce, Springfield, VA 22151.

Review of University of Colorado Report on Unidentified
Flying byects Review of report by a panel Of the National
Academy of Sciences... National Academy of Sciences,

1969, 6p. Photoduplicated hard copies may be ordered for

$3 as AD 688:541 from the National Technical Information
Service, U.S. Department of Commerce, Springfield, VA 2251.

FEDERAL GovERInyy January 24, 1977

Lieutenant Colonel H. A.)\McClanahan, USAF
ranch roe

Community Relations Division
ce of Information

Mr. Malmfeldt has brought your letter of Janu-
ary’ 14th, with enclosure, to my attention. I join him in
thanking you for sending us a copy of your UFO Fact Sheet

and for apprising us of the termination of your project.

Sincerely yours,

onald W, Moore, Jr.
Assistant Director
External Affairs Division

DES De x 2 BBE IL HEY

Be JAN 27 1977

Assoc, Dir.
Dep. AD Adm.
Dep. AD Inv, __
Asst. Dir:
Adm. Serv._
Ext. Affairs
Fin. & Pers,
Gen, Inv, —_
Ident.
Inspection —_
Intell,
Laboratory
Legal Coun, __
Plan, & Evol,
Rec. Mgnt. —_

Spec. Inv.
Training "
Telephone Rm. A {
Director Sec’ at : MAIL } TELETYPE UNIT (_]

ai, “s ' GPO ; 1976 O - 207-526

1 - Mr. Cochran

FEDERAL GOVERNMENT June 15, 1977

57, iat fo ba ere

Mr. Stanley Schneider

Assistant to the Director

Office of Science and Technology Policy
Executive Office of the President
Washington, D. C. 20500

Dear Mr. Schneider:

Pursuant to our conversation today, there is
enclosed a copy of the FBI Law Enforcement Bulletin
for the month of February, 1975. Beginning on page
16 there is an article covering the handling of UFO
sightings which may be of interest to you in connection
with your current inquiry.

If there is any way we may be of additional
service to you, please do not hesitate to let me
know.

Sincerely yours,

JUN 15 1977
Jay cook BEC / G2.- rz a“

Assistant Director FBI
Technical Services Division

Enclosure

NOTE: Schneider originally called 6/14/77, see memo that date
captioned White House Inquiry re UFO as to Bureau procedures
for handling information received re UFO. He was advised in
absence of jurisdiction no inquiries are conducted and information

furnished to U. S. Air Force.

Adm, Serv.__—__ Legal Coun.
eal Plan. & Insp-———

Rec. Mgnt__—__——_

Span. Inv. —_—__—

Director.
Assoc, Dir.
Public Affe, Off. 4)
Telshens Rasa JU Dep. AD Adm. he
Director's Sec'y — MAIL R! S/PELETYPE UNIT (1) Dep. AD Inv. Laboratory.

rae

. Servs._—_—_—
Training —_—————

Public Affs. 55

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
JULY 1973 EDITION
GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6 Assoc. Dir,

UNITED STATES GOV. .MENT Dep. AD RA

Dep. AD I
Asst. Dins

‘/ Memorandum rate

MR. MC DERMOTT DATE: 6/14/77

Lege! Coun, —_

¢ eo vi Plans) fe lave =
FROM : J. COCH 5 es

SUBJECT: WHITE HOUSE INQUIRY RE
_~UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS (UFO)

Stanley Schneider of the Office of Science and
Technology, White House, telephonically contacted me today to
inquire as to the Bureau's procedure for handling information
received from the public or otherwise, relating to sightings
of UFOs. He advised that Jody Powell of the President's staff

\ has raised the question as to whether or not there is any
coordination within the Executive Branch relating to information
concerning this subject. He stated that the U.S. Air Force had
closed their investigation of these matters several years ago
and currently does nothing but refer such information to
appropriate local authorities.

\

, I advised him that as far as the FBI is concerned

there appears to be no conceivable jurisdiction for us to conduc t

any inquiries upon receipt of information relating to a UFO

sighting and, in the absence of some investigative jurisdiction

based upon the information furnished, that information would be

referred to the Department of the Air Force without any action
being taken by the Bureau.

He thanked me for the information and stated that if
any further contact was necessary he would call back.

ACTION: ages" WS bo pss Y4%6

None. For information.

APPROVED: Adm. Serv. Legal Coun.__
rim I Plan & Inspa
Director fa. & Pars, a
Dire Maat.
. AD Ad Intall,.__ &
1 - Mr. Adams Dep, AD Inv. Laboratory_ Trai
1 - Each Assistant Director Public

1 - Mr. Boynton

Wc.

(16)
|

] os
Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

Les FBI/DOJ

FILSar jo Ld30‘s'n
LL. Wd te mn
“Ooayd 84 4 9 Ir
Lhe Wy gy M0ggy 2A11y 3/155
& Sey FALVIILSIAN
ee, "Aiz9 04 Vd une
a Vig

é

Team ip

i]

NOISIAIG AYOLVYOSVT

(2 10¢

GSAi5034
