<i
Dn
—

ac
© \
Loo

X
oO >
Lal fa
© x
© ai
=

a

USE DESTROY

FOIPA #_zazo¢7 &

‘Transfer-Call 421;

FBY, SAVANNAH 8-352

IRECTOR, FBI URGENT

FLYING SAUCERS, SAVANNAH RIVER PLANT, AEC. SECURITY OFFICE OF AEC

i
ADVISED THIS DATE. THAT TWO EMPLOYEES OF THE E. I. DU PONT COMPANY Le

SAW A BLUE LIGHT WITH AN ORANGE FRINGE SHAPED LIKE A SAUCER FLY. OVER
THE FOUR HUNDRED AREA OF THE SAVANNAH RIVER PLANT AT APPROXIMATELY
NINE THIRTY PM AUGUST EIGHT, FIFTYTWO. OBJECT FLYING AT A HIGH RATE

OF SPEED AND TRAVELING IN A NORTHEASTERN ragad iootagt a:
RECORDED - 68 <

ACK AND H O L D_ ecccccece

7-48 PM OK FBI WA NRB

bead

August ll, 1952

‘ Ur, Edmond J.\ane
Lbs Mauston, Wisconsin

: biel =
Dear Mr. Kanes % © =~ G2

Your letter dated August 1, 1952, has
been received, and I appreciate the interest which
prompted your bringing your observations to my
attention.

Inasmuch as the matter of the flying

saucers is being investigated by the United States

Atr Force, I am taking the liberty of forwarding a

copy of your letter to the Director of Special Investi ations,

The Inspector éral,i Déparment.cf-thre Air Force,, The Pentagon,
Washington, De Co If you have further observations along

this line, I would suggest that you may wish to com-

municate directly with him.

Sincerely yours,

John Edgar Hoover
Director

Copy by form to Air Force Intelligence. \

NOTE: Special Agent Samuel Hardy, EOD 3-28-25, GS-12,
#8760, assigned to Minneapolis. ro

Special Agent Clinton W. Stein, BOD. @-6-31, GS-15,
$10,800, assigned Division II as SEEpecteN:
RHD: grimfo N

193%

WO

Ge itd 8S 2) 21%

i V ° r v2
fo /
G As Se | 4 : on ae

ony

August 12, 1952

urs, Ora AV Tygrett
c/o Lou Merlaw Farn
Rural Route No. 1

New Palestine, Indiana

Dear Mrs. Tygrett:

Your letter dated July 31, 1952, addressed to the
War Department, c/o Federai Bureau of Investi 1tion, has been
received.

Your interest in furnishing your observation in
this regard is appreciated.

In view of the contents of your communication
which also appear to be of interest to the Department of
the Air Force, I have taken the liberty of furnishing
that Agency a copy of your letter.

Sincerely yours,

John Edgar Hoover
Director

| COMM = FET]

} MAILED 20

68 AUG 22 1952

U

igo 7 TVEREL

August 13, 1952

Director of Special Investigations
The Inspector General

Department of the Air Force

The Pentagon

Washington 25, De Ce

From: John Edgar Hoover, Director
Federal Bureau of investigation

Subject: FLYING DISKS

There is attached a Photostat of a selfs
explanatory letter dated August 5, 1952, at

Pontiac, Michigan, received by this Bureau from
Mr. W. He. Jennings, 3096 Hazelmary, Zone 17, Pontiac,
Michigan, relating to the captioned matter.

Mr. Jennings’ letter has been acknowledged
and he has been informed that a copy of his letter
has been furnished to your office for appropriate

attention. WNo further action is contemplated in this
matter by this Bureau.

ee,

ent RECORDED “li
Ff)

BU

IOS”

There is no record identi fiahle wi th JeTinings
in the files of the Bureau

EHMske , a op)

new

Date: August 13, 1952

To: Director of Special Investigations
The Inspector General
Department of the Air Force
The Pentagon
Washington 25, De C.

From: John Edgar Hoover, Director
Federal Bureau of investigation
ry (':

"| Sudjeet: “FLYING DISKS

There is attached a copy of a self
explanatory letter dated July 31, 1952, received
by this Bureau from Wr. Benedicto Romero, 1647
Park Avenue, New York City, relating to the
captioned matter.

Mr. Romero's letter has been acknowledged (
and he has been informed that a copy of his letter
has been furnished to your o/fice for appropriate
attention. Wo further action is contenplated in
this matter by this Bureau.
30h

a

se Epon RES
Bureau files fail to reflect,.anyi nforma tion
that can be identi fied with Mr. Romero. wo

August , 1952

Director of Spectal Investigations
The Inspector General

Department of the Air Force

The Pentagon

Washington 25, De Ce

From: John Edgar Hoover, Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation

Subject: FLYING DISKS

There ta attached a copy of a self-
explanatory letter dated August 1, 1952, received
by this Bureau from Mrs. Fred Haufe, 606 Walnut
Avenue, Fairmont, West Virginia, relating to

the captioned matter. PD

Mrs. Haufe's letter has been acknowledged
and she has been informed that a copy of her letter
has been furnished to your office for appropriate
attention. Ho further action is contemplated in
this matter by this Bureau.

7~ BO
econ | 5 ik f

reau files fail to re
identifieds with Mrs.

==} BAUS 26 1959

andy,

SERVICE UNIT é 4-228
SEARCH SL}P
Supervisor dagede On

“ss:

res?
Subj ;<27S

—___Exact Spelling

411 References
Subversive Ref.

——Main File

——-Restricted to Locality of

FILE NUMBER SERIALS

Initialed

{meee ®

Office Memorandum e UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

10 : MR. Re Te HARRO i 4 DATE: August 8, 1952
FROM : C3 F, DOWNING \\)%

RS ee COMMUNICATION WRITTEN

pope ae ER 3A RECEIVED. BY.
- "CINCINNATI ENQUIRER" PERTAINING

TO "FLYING SAUCERS"
SECURITY MATTER = X

Reference is made to a letter from the Cincinnati Office dated_,
August 6, °1952, submitting an anonymous letter in German concerning
so-called "Flying Saucers."

\ (
Attached are 7 copies of a translation of th >: material Wore MWh,
prepared in the Cryptanalysis-Translation Section. ¢ bn

No reply has been made by us to the August 6, 1952, letter from
Cincinnati.

That the Domestic Intelligence Division review the Cincinnati
submission and accompanying Bureau translation, for appropriate handling,
noting particularly a suggestion in the last paragraph of the Cincinnati
letter to consider making this information available to other Governmental
Agencies. As

62-8389),
Twn: Jen
\" Attachment 2,

yb

58 SEP 2 1952

HISIAIG AMGLVUORVT

2G. WY ¢o

OPIES
270

TRANSLATION FROM GERMAN

Flying Saucer,
@ weapon tested in 19h, which is probably now being produced in
Series, and at this time causes a great stir, is @ V-weapon which
has @ round body similar to a disk having @ diameter of about
48-50 m. On the outer ring it has about 5-50 automatic circular
noguzles which after the ignition of the disk circulate around a
plexiglass sphere in the center in which the measuring and controlling
devices for long-distance steering are located. In the sphere is still
sufficient space for atom bombs. ‘These weapons are in iussian hands
and can have an effective range of 30-35,000 km. ‘The constructor of
Veweapons RIEDEL in Germany stated that it concerns a typical V-weapon
on which he had worked himself. I am sure that the truth is better
than a panic among ignorant people,

He SCH.

NOV 19 1864

€
“ta Gllows,,¢
7?F y - : .
We: 9h Ce LS orme,
€e Jurn thed EO a) ro
? JUPr thoy act

CC Pa Mr rs EF.

CRD =p vie»

WEL) C sa

‘7

A, “O8sbupg

UW yA

Ys Room

12 ony

v

APPROPRIATE AGENCIES

AND FIELD OF Ices
ADVISED BY ROWRY

S2I MDa STAIAIONTaE

Director, FBI
SAC, San Diego (100-3565)

BORDERLAND SCIENCES , RESEARCH ASSOCIATES

San Diego, California;
MEAD LAYNE - Directors MAX FREEDOM LONG — Director

Reference is made to San Diego letter dated 8-5-52 concerning the
captioned matters
For the additional information of the Bureau, there is being trans-
mitted herewith one copy each of the following which were made
available to me by FRANCIS OHM, who is a member of the captioned
organizations
1e Mimeographed letter consisting of four
pages addressed to His Excellency, The
President of the United States.

Mimeographed announcement consisting of

three pages entitled "For Information of
the Public — and the Sake of the Record —

A Synopsis of Important Data".

Enclosure (2)
FS tjec

97 5/4¥~3

ROT RECORDED
WAPSEP 3 1952

_ARIGINAL FILED IN

© SEP 101952

August 22, 1952

RECORDED - 88 urs wii tichlde }rmvielO
ra Route 3

Jackson, Minnesota

8
qADEXED 8 Dear Mr. Hoffmeyer:

EX. - 73

Your letter postmarked August 15, 1952,
together with enclosure, has been received, and I
want to thank you for bringing this matter to imy
attention.

Inasmuch as the contents of your comnunt-
catton do not reflect any violation within the
Jjurtadiction of this Bureau, I am unable to comply
with your request.

I am taking the liberty of forwarding a
copy of your letter and your original enclosure to
the Director of Spectal Investigations, The Inspector
veneral, Department of the Air Force, The Pentagon,
Washington 25, D. C., since these matters may be of
interest to that agency.

Sineerely yours,

John Edgar Hoover
Director

Copy of incoming to Dept. of Air Force.

NOTE: In view of correspoddent's) Reifid five to a."steady white
their farm, his letter were is being referred

to: the Ul Air Force. branch thtereshed in nm ers of this types

Correspondent's enclosure was 4 Sample of what appeared to be

shredded thin strips of tin-fotl.

off \"

UG. Hd 68 S22 884

q9119AF-30 1430'S 8

WOO! TeWegIAIIIAE

\V nN
4 /@ ?
4 ,
,
3
:

= }

B AO
fad es
ee
4 =
sae
fr?

“RECORDED =p" Cot o7F -376
” 5 AUG 1952+ ‘
war ay vikings a

ESA at raga $f
Paa

GsAI="

ig. Hace 1 OLS

sanof Un

o

TRUE COPY

Jackson Minn
Aug 2, 1952

J. Edgar Hoover
Federal bureau of Investigation,
Washington, D. Ce

Dear Mr Hoover:

I don't know if you analyze articles so will
send you a sample of (something that looks like tinsel)
because my uncle found it in a pasture in a round pile,
underneath of it, tt looks as tho the clover was burned,
& there are 3 similar patches which are burned in a
triangle form. Last Sunday Morning the Neighbors Wife
got up to get a drink of water & happned to see a steady
white Light circling their farm, but didn't pay any
attention to it. Than Sunday morn. when my uncle went
to get the cows, he saw this stuff shining in the Sun
light. It couldn't of been dropped out of a plane as it
was loose & not in a container & the nearest road is
about a # mile from the pasture & now we are wondering
what it is. So would like to have you analyze it & let
me know.

Sincerely yours,

/s/ Wm Hof fmeyer

RECORDED - 126
ANDEKED

& - 73

August 20, 1952

26

Mr. John E.}ttang
1413 South Vermont
Los Angeles 6, California

Dear Mr. Lang:

Your letter of August 12, 1952, has been received
and I want you to know that I appreciate the interest
prompting you to bring your observations to my attention.

Inasmuch as the matter to which you refer is of
interest to the United States Air Force authorities, I am
taking the liberty of making a copy of your communication
available to The Honorable, The Secretary of the Air Force,
The Pentagon, Washington 25, C.

Sincerely yours,

John Edgar Hoover
Director

LH:gribkh

RECORDED 198

&
oe

ector, FBI August 5, 1952
SAC, San Diego

BORDERLAND SCIENCES, RESEARCH ASSOCIATES
Sen Diego, Californias; MEAD LAYNE, Directors
MAX FREEDOM LONG, Director

Ty/view of the current hysteria concerning the
so-called "flying saucers", I thought that the Bureau
might be interested in the following information concern=
ing the captioned organization.

I am transmitting herewith certain literature con=-
cerning the captioned organization which was furnished to
me by FRANCIS OHM, who operates the Businessmens Assurance
Company in San Diego and who has his office in the same
building housing the FBI office.

It is of interest to note that on Friday, August J
1952, at approximately 12:00’noon, FRANCIS OHM asked to se
me urgently, which I did. As a member of the captioned
organization, he advised me that they were having a meeti:
at 1:00 PM the same day, inasmuch as they had been advise
that they had some very important information to discuss. }
He went on to relate that through the means utilized by higy
organization (which the enclosed literature will reflect
borders on the occult), they were able to prognosticate
well in advance the recent earthquake which occurred in
Tehachapi, California. He advised thet they have also
been able to obtain the following informations:

1. That a very severe tidal wave will hit the
Pacific Ocean sometime in the not too remote future and
that most of the Japanese Islends will be washed away
and disappear,

2. That all fishes with scales in Japanese
waters will soon leave these waters for other destina-
tions, in view of the oncoming tidal wave.

3. That this tidal wave will wash away the
Hawaiian Islands.

4. That the West Coast of the United States will
likewise be affected by this tidal wave.

5. That they prognosticated the appearance of
a new island in the Pacific which was published in the

newspapers within the past week,
/ 7

JFStha fe Ag Vs SER AS oe
, NOT RECORDED

71 SEP F91%2 MIsEP 8 1

INITIALS ON OR

py

Direcotr, FBI

Re: BORDERLAND SCIENCES, RESEARCH ASSOCIATES
San Diego, Californias; MEAD LAYNE, Director;
MAX FREEDOM LONG, Director

6. That the flying saucers are not fantasies; that
they are factual and actual; that his associates in the captioned
orgenization have been in conversation with the men operating
the flying saucers, and that they have asked that high officials
of the U. S. Government be informed that they are here on our
planet on a peaceful mission and that they are not on a warlike
mission. However, if the U. S. Government continues to send
planes after these flying saucers and if these planes fire on
the flying saucers, they have disintegrators which they will
utilize and which will disintegrate these plmes completely in
no time flat.

Mr. OHM requested that either I myself attend the i
meeting at 1:00 PM or that I designate a stenographer to attend
the meeting, so that she could take down all the minutes of the
meeting. I told him that wfortwmately this was very short
notice, that I had another commitment and that our stenographers
were pretty well occupied at that time. He said he would advise

me of anything important that might transpire at the meeting. k
As of August 2, 1952, he has not advised me of anything which
transpired at the meeting. FE

I should like to point out that OHM appears to be
a perfectly sane, sound individuals he operates a very large
insurance business in San Diego, and is convinced in his om
mind of the efficacy of this organization.

No investigation is being conducted concerning this
matter and I do not contemplate attending any meetings of this
orgenization.

August 25, 1952

Mr. Co Si Lhoinskt
Koshkonong, Missouri

Dear Mr. Chotnski:

Your letter dated August 14, 1952, has been
recetved, and I want to thank you for affording me the
benefit of your observations.

Inasmuch as the matter to which you refer
ts of interest to another governmental ayency, I am
taking the liberty of forwarding a copy of your com=-
nintcation to the Director of Special Investigations,
fhe Inspector General, Department of the Air Force,
Lhe Pentagon, Washington 25, De C.

Sincerely yours,

John Edgar Hoover
Director

Copy of incoming sent to the Director of Special
Investigations, the Inspector General, Department of
the Air Force, by form letter.

LH:pazbkh

JONSAT a0 1d30 Sf
if
G3Ai4

Ged TS §f aii;

SINOf-UW

STANGARO Fons no. 64 s e

Office Memorandum e¢ UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

‘
TO: Mr. Ae He afingkd DATE: August 22, 1952
FROM : Ure We Ae Branigan Ih {>

‘ToLeon_
Lada,

SUBJECT: FLYING DISCS aS an

( ouavin

\L we Ntchous,
J Rosen,
treey,

PURPOSE: Harboe
ima Belmont,
To recommend existing instructions to the field

re flying discs be called to the attention of the
field.

BACKGROUND:

A review of communications received from the
fteld indicates they are not observing existing
instructions contained in Bureau Bulletin #57, para=
graph D, dated 10/1/47, and SAC Letter #38, dated
3/25/49, to refer details of complaints regarding
flying saucers to OSI locally.

ACTION:

It is recommended the attached SAC Letter
be issued.

EHU: Reema sy

71 SEP 101952,

2

come e

por Memorandum + ouxxvrep STATES GOVERNMENT
On fis 2 JAW: rea DATE: ~~ August 18, 1952

FROM ; BRAN.
suBJECT: - FLYING DISCS
PURPOSE:

To advise all Supervisors engaged on night
duty of instructions concerning the referral of
flying dise information to OSI.

BACKGROUND:

Captain William Deegan, OSI, 4th Air Force
Base, Bowling Field, has requested that any information
concerning the sighting of flying discs (saucers, etc.)
be telephonically furnished immediately to his office,
day or night, by dialling Code 1261, and asking for
Extension 509. Captain Deegan advised the Air Force
ts greatly concerned about the captioned matter, and
would appreciate the Bureau's cooperation in immediately
advising of details received concerning such compldints.

ACTION:

It is recommended a copy of this memorandum
be filed in the night and week-end Supervisor's book 4,
\tn your office for their information. D

EHM :drg \} ‘

(c) CPLYING DISCS -- Reference is made to Bureau Bulletin #57,
Paragraph D, dated October 1, 1947, and SAC Letter 38, dated
March 25, 1949, in the captioned matter,

It is noted that some Bureau field offices are not fur-
nishing to OSI locally complaints regarding flying discs, pursuant
to existing Bureau instructions,

Upon receipt of information by your office relating to
the sighting of a flying disc, you should endeavor to determine
from the complainant details of the type referred to in the Air
Force memorandum, which was furnished to your office as an enclosure
to SAC Letter #38. The information should then be promptly fur-
nished to OSI locally by your office, As you are aware, the in-
vestigation of so-called flying discs is the responsibility of the
Department of the Air Force,

see

3 a

bone JOT RECORDED
go sep 3 1952

—

ORIGINAL FILED IN /

«= StA*Thno FoM No. 64 & . *

i Office Mem wndum * UNITED SIArTES GOVERNMENT

To: ur. HARBO [\& pate: August 29, 1952
FROM : D. J. PARSON, as
ST pha

SUBJECT: UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECT pagar
ALLEGEDLY CITED BY MR. D. SXDESVERGERS, (ee
WEST PALM BEACH, FLORIDA Mi as

Rosen:

By letter of August 26, 1952, the Air Force requested
that we examine the cap of Mr. Desvergers, a scoutmaster
at West Palm Beach, Florida, who claims that he observed a, {¢
unidentified flying object in a desolate area, He report debs aes
that upon his investigation, a MBB object 30 feet in diam tees Z
hovered over his head and shot a "red blob” which causedrhim™
lose consciousness. The cap has some holes burned in it and
is reported that the hair on Desvergers' arms was singed, The
Air Force requested that we determine, if possible, from any
residues left the nature of the residual material.

The Air Force desires an oral report on this tonight.
We have finished the eraminatton and are preparing to advise the
Air Force as follows:

1. There is no residue which would permit a determination
as to the nature of the material which caused the burns in the
cap. In addition to the obvious burns, there is one minute burned
area which is probably too small to have been caused intentionally
but more likely by a small hot ember,

2. The bill and a large part of the edges of the cap
are singed but the singeing is not uniform as would be expected
if it had been caused at one time by a single flash of flame, The
front edge of the cap bill is more severely singed than other
portions of the cap. This condition would not be expected if the
source of the flame was directly overhead. vw,

3. When the cap is observed from the front,the left A
edge of the insignia and the fold in the blue cloth, there is an
absence of singeing noted under the fold suggesting the possibility
that the cap was not being worn when the singeing took place.

It is noted that this fold "smooths out" when the cap is. placed
on the head,

RECOMMENDATION: That in response to the request, of Colonel Free
jof the Air Force, it is recommended that he be

j orally advised of the above. >
RE 8 Od - aaa ed Nd sad
DJIP/mek J al RECORDED - 192, SEP

!

oc jw

Ge HdOTG 2 33S

September ll, 1952

pec onde « we

‘
yp

wor

Mr, Rog’ flwell
Roadstown, New Jersey

Dear ry Elwell:

Your letter postmarked September 6, 1952,
has been received, and I appreciate the interest
prompting you to let me have the benefit of your
observations,

Sinee the contents of your communication
may be of interest, to other governmental agencies,
I am taking the liberty of forwarding copies of it

to the Administrator of Civtl Aeronauttes, Civil

Aeronautics Administration, Department of Commerce,
Washington, D, C.ey and to The Honorable,
of Defense, The Pentagon, Washington, D. C,

The Secretary

Sineerely yours,

j8 Q3AI9984

John fdgar Hoover
Director
“Copy by form sent to Civil Aeronautics rie Adee age

sCopy by form sent to Secretary of Defense
DICzimz

p2" (e
A ae

Qe

Tele, Be.
ottoman,
ana

SEP | 2 1952
MAILED 79

Ca ida bur,
@ 5 4.

ie uy oorer

FV dval bw peas d Dias phir
jureh,, Ht: 74

Peay © Yor! _

Amtke Are AO pee 3

rele Van’ the 9 pawta
: odout As Phare,

to wide
het 4 Came be babi ADS FCF
ie Jo J

bd Tie teh
$e Linge, and hind rads wot fa

te,

ME ted t Arce

Ammer

MR. JONES

aay
‘rp A 457 PKA
RECEIVED s
FR
$ DEP J WUSTICE
US$ DE

i Atay Mon es Ae qe ms (23
Z Lok bi if bg an 7

V0ew so ie ae jet L AL 035

At bree dt wad mu vb 4 at 3

fac Lye AVGHN prntiie") AP JAW Ct Mor.
. QA anew above 70 Asal Apr

Aah den es Rie nord fd

ON gpg oo had
eulinae fod ten! TOG

hited a bed them Oomna ard 1 beo

ow ee Yor pre Con errnegl
felt Av eo aad 1 herr S

pak tp ee Dien ee Har S te ne
S dena) tb sad Lo. ow Cia

bs fh Bae Yaw aie ee Pe
Are gee 4 rete. dae

De Laat ML ¢ Thay ot ae

es ne COVE hep a

CH Com Ae (3 PRS wx Ae (6)

: ite Cacia oP 4 ee

Awe rulhe alf ot V ys 1A AL

uf rhe: ( 4 'e 2) Dr. t f i te - d
: WY Ala Cerlaine a

and O~A- & S Hie af

ait ah wre [i

4S oe

OL C- L/VA ne, ( A plar ae

I& ae pocAe,

pat “of he & KD brtlaine 3 wy

mk aa ah

I-A.

}

al “Ce Wa

Crylarw , mea In. Avi A pefarte fh

OT ge i cm eats altace all

cy A hee fA a de a mn
fP apart wt ee F. Gb & VA a bet
A af Left tL bv yr ee Vie, wate pa, 6 n \- :
he lo rt Coritae cs conto } WY
F Seaoe a td A eth Vivre CS

is hipre Pied a Attia. OS as C2 i Re p ae Wee
AN d Phot fv By Pore ce Centirwy 6h (he

fall & wh An Atrfoce Or ane purned
the - wf Qw ANr4 Aare mutirar o-

Lt Ah

wy

Ds ets @. vA ta- Cera. JHIUNM«“ (CE
Cw ne Lhe. For cyan it
Bes pS Oe hirl, ptewe fe be Ou ss nw hs

fury, Oe Oe: ry thu lA m17~-e"
ee thaw rr tape
ov (ru a akQ Kevas, &
Wr AMY otk, put _ A
ty ek Mtr"g y,

A {fe rine peje
AAA

Cd ds WAty, “YY

d
wad + ( x
(- TSAt RS pe Oe “A Ma Cha _

ppl Arn (wee Lt avr
as Olu are 0 ae Se
trite ee Ruth sw je ee es
rte Por the Wea 7) Pe, Poe es Sart c
ao 6) ? ba VL # pe AS bora’
thd an Cantina brad Grout ty
noha Sy to Jerlaide thar AAV
pthwre | Clewwk. f
UY Lach ( Rlinte Aad Be
CAimefe LMurr— h Ce Fee A- Wren would
wee Jk OW Bar ( hey Ween a
emu Be Jaen AL A 1 seal ho ee
Apes ow coh Liotax per ie Pika)
Apured put ff mM ion Sf ceo,

ets pith preter Year Earths

She Call G fp Wore to &
Wy]
But 4 nb od Noe Bask ce uci q

awe iW ad Reh 5
ene - Yat
ee AAW a Leon, rp we 7 the

aay Uf)

sulle
fre cond) ie peered fe

oh ore aikh—

v7)
al oie [eng i Tobe oth

Fie tak CaP fe tg po Laing

x. t5

‘fect Teel, ow Orta ee Oey |

ticad, ww Lec Ge ae.
oe
Lae 4 Amel 6 Mate sma. 4 ppd Gets

“irl GrratuPthar is ie bs eve
Puk Canary ye qtw if Be Ax AS bara vd
je fs Ae ea thaw oe Lub.
vA or woe ne ltd wet “Pett

Aw be howd fi 9 oh.
ECartle. Paigced we lc Phifer. t
/WWCW AAPL oe sans ae 2

Pl Ll JA OT Phd AV Ch Sct j. AL Co (rx tl a
B co @ tor ie { Ao Ve eiesae 4a org

sim. 8 Q But Lh g von
eae q Di Pa. Hoon epet—
a Rene bY a Comey ov ¢
Am wll & jad ¢q) AYWV AY Bee iF ebb
; Al iow oe Vea; a Ly The Pe ety
ere i fe Ar dur zy oe Jug sig a as
ON PEP ff. Deld ader be. oo

Pe 1 OV are Of . ae ees of Peis AUVEAR
he Pantha id. wewtd Lend: Pee OW Barr oy

Com. Alito ye the tl center, | “,@
f- eae Centro Cou éd Pra ae y

: as Pa te Are al toto a on the
; od Ut Coil) alec ztind atl .f,

ote ecfocrne Aten b4A fa a—

“FLO dh hee te, a6
Ake Ov Auddere pbs 4a ae fe of, dire les

WAR ae’ Catt nw c. Stes ded J
Ons y a iid a ae ee a Lah

(fo

AZ, re re (1S) Sg MAS

pl po eee oO idgl
eS Sw Te oul Osext Abe Ow 4h Be
and Revfo tA ye ae Cook

Brut . 3D devtt if Aare Sou a4 “A
MARA ee teow prom Looe. ‘

A, caste his fertirw Leen
are Ux zmall 2

Ap hg Cred: Tha.
Cato wy... we

tnd not Owe } w.
wrth os Onna, eon LS Peer. Qed ope,
J. Awe ae An 4 Te
44 | are i anes Mate eee iG
(2 ae foe 2p be, -. Ma a Sy si

Mw rR ing Av Th CA is

( Wee Fbd Ee |
aher A Pe PO f fe Le. At tke AL Lyra
he ON ke ad pook ALi,

Peas. Ly fis:
Avme tue hh b.Uoons far, Dh;

ponte Kas oe Merve f
SH “to het » ee 2 fa ia a pM
ard, if io fee, and A org. bv! Y Lhe ae
Hur ie" he the f- we ve ps

“Vr4 v

A wey b es Wy
the ee st BL ih Bhi 4a JEN, rf

"GG A? ha pov a te Se,
Pm asi wehse y! Ces Be

i: ei teas

I. ph

| in wits a7 th. oes,

bled ta 49 mukrie Uh ec By “ia

Due Ah av or hed liny (Wuhan

awe Yhe met; p.&¢ ie ab get onl

Ve ORE Cag ee AO fh Qt
Dhar; alll Gb ee ails se eae

ALa MS yf pore Ce dainng Ave ie it se a
ifn “i ae ad Lae fee

4 he. es me tyffrta A140 “wit —
fee fps in hegre wee a!

VL— Lau 9) A944

A MAN k, APY L

eet i é r |

Office Memorandum ° UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

To: Mr. A. H. Belfi se ; DATE: September 20, 1952
FROM : Cc. E. Hennes ‘ mie

SUBJECT: STRANGE WHITE OBJECT SEEN OVER YU
4 MONTANA ON mts MBER 19, 1952 \
»

sey

Fp’
I talked woth ASAC_ Plaxico of Butte on September 20,
re the attached“news releases indicating that the FBI
was investigating a strange white object which reportedly
streaked across the sky of Montana for about one hundred

miles. Mr. Plaxico stated that while a report of this
object had been received at the Butte Office, that no
investigation was conducted regarding the matter and that
Rone was contemplated.

ACTION:

For your information.
Attachment
CEH:meh \

600i 6 1959

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Pines

DIRECTOR, FBI BATE! 10/3 /52

SAC, NEWARK (1000-36998)

RE: SPECIAL INQUIRY
UNIDENTIFIED AERIAL OBJECTS;
Inspector General, USAF ns
2nd District Office of epecial Investigations

67 Broad Street
Now York Y New York: Flying EF eK

For the information of the Bureau, on August 2 P1952,
the Newark division received a request from the Inspector General,
United States Air Force, 2nd District Office of Svecial Investi-
gations, 67 Broad Street, New York 4, New \York, that the back-
ground of a civilian photographer, JOHN RAZRILEY, 571 Main Street,
Paterson, N. J., and of GEORGE J.psOCK, 221 Brooks Avenue, Passaic,
N. Je, be investigated in an attempt to Eagan their reliability
in view of the fact that they had alls ly observed and photo-
grephed an unidentified aerial object eats Saty 31, 1952.

_

The appropriate credit and criminal checks were made in
this mayer as well as discreet netepee 200° inaguiries as to both
individuals,and no Cer oe was received that either individual
had criminal records or that they were known in the past to have

perpetrated any kind of fraud.

it was ascertained that STOCK did photograph an allegedly
unidentified aerial object and that RILEY witnessed the incident
and develoved and printed the exposed film which y subsequently
forwarded to the 5th OSI District, Air Technical .- itellig rence
Center, Wright-—Pa amt ie ese’ Force Bas : Ihio } I CHARI aE GREGG,
staff writer, “Ihe ald News, Pass N

‘he >tter further reauested that the photographer and
the witness be questioned as to the circumst: mces under which the
photographs were taken and that an attempt be made to locate
other sources in the area that might determine the authenticity
of she photos. No investigation of this type was made by the

Newark division.

In accordance with SAC eg r #83, Series 195: ated
8/29/52, the results of the credit riminal checks and the
neighborhood investigations were fica ‘ded to the local OSI
Office, New York City and no further investigations have been
made by this office.

1WR = IMH ae
APEROPRIATE hoe
AND FIELD OFFICES INDE XE TP

ADVISED BY ROUTING
SLIP(S) OF 40

fz——$¢ HD ent

2 Y

Frep. J. EEK HOUT ut.p
49, STADHOUDERSLAAN i

THE AAGUE THE HAGUE, October 6th

THE NETHERLANDS

Department cf Justice
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Pennsylvania Avenue
WASHINGTON D.o.
\
In the care of Mr Bailey
Rm 1246

Bailey,

cuse me please if I misspelled your name, but
saw it in writing.
On May 5th at 2.15 P.M. of this year I paid you
in the F.B.I.offices, where I told you details on
ertain su dject you will surely remember. At the end of
conversation I promissed you not to t out it un-
i had Pome word from you whet! or not-the proper
ere interested. It was taken for granted that
ght elapse before the answer could be given.

Five months have passed by since then, and as
the subject has now become active in Europe, I am really
anxious to go ahead with it, I have ofcourse tried to
check the theory on eachvaspect and while doing so I
found various complementary as well as fundamental details.

I have now reached the point however where I
would like to discuss the whole with an expert and I
would theretor certainly appreciate to know whether I have
to consider o agreement on complete silence as still
being valid and necessary or not

It might be that you are too busy to be able to y,
write to me of that the authorities are not interested. As {>
it is not my intention to bother you too much with it, I
will take it th é no longer any necessity for
silence on my part [ not rec 3 any information to
the contrary by the 2 !

By this prop n I do intend to force s
issue but I would like to discuss ¢ Sones like this wit
soared ste friends of mine, which annot do as long as I
am bound ba my promise to you. SA

With very kind regards, AN

ee Beats

344

WK

gf - CaaONf

RECORDED - L

0.
ctober 10, 1952 AIR MATL

ur. Fred wekhout

Uh ia Stadhouderslaan

The Hague
The Netherlands

Béd> ur. Eekhouts:

Your letter dated October 6, 1952, has been
recéived.

You will perhaps recall being advised at the
time of your visit to this Bureau that the matter discussed
was not within the jurisdiction of the FBI. However, in
view of your imminent departure from Washington the infor-

mation was accepted for transmittal to the appropriate
agency, which was to contact you if interested.

Full details were made available at that time to
the Department of the Air Force for evaluation and consider-
ation. In the absence of some arrangement between you and
the Air Force, your further use of the pertinent facts is,
of course, a matter for your own determination.

Sincerely yours,

John Edgar Hoover
Director
NOTE ON YELLOW:

Bulet to OSI, Air Force, dated 5-7-52 transmitted data
furnished by Lekhout to the Bureau 5-5-52 concerning his ideas
as to plans for a workable flying disc. Eekhout was informed

hat further contact with him, if any, would come from the

terested Government agency rather than the Bureau. No mention
was made of his keeping the facts secret pending a reply from
the Bureau or the Air Force. . (62-83894-273)

srdn ww

DOM

Me . ®
DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR DA |

HEADQUARTERS UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

bs
30 September 1952
MEMORANDUM FOR+ ox rates f ue 8
W YORKER

SUBJECT: Comments on Article in The NE}

to the Air Technical Intelligence Center,

1. A call was made
Ruppelt) regarding ‘the attached article.

1330 this date, (Captain

ancl

y indicate to Mr Lang that the

FBI has an interest in flying saucers. Furthermore, Captain
Ruppelt stated that the FBI_to his knowledge has never been called

upon to furnish reports on@flying saucerse ATIC is under the
Lang made the Story up or picked it up from
aper article sometime back that definitely

with their organization.

2. ATIC did not in any wa,

impression that Mr.
a magazine or newsp:
was not associated

94- 3-¢-23

3. ATIC suggests that you check further with Mr. Al Chop,
Office of Public Information, and perhaps he can supply you with
the information you have requested.

1 Incl:
Article fr NEW YORKER» Colone}, USAF
Chief / Policy & nagement Group

dtd Sept 6, 1952
Directorate of telligence b

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

OFFICE OF PUBLIC INFORMATION
WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

“tet it 3

The following information concerning Air Force investigations of unusual
aerial phenomena is submitted in answer to your request.

In the Fall of 1947 the United States Air Force took official notice of
reports of so-called “flying saucers" becanse the reports from the public
indicated that the problem might be related te the Air Force responsibility for
the air defense of the United States.

On December 50, 197 the Air Foree dtrected its Air Materiel Command, at
Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Dayton, Ohio, te set up a project to collect and
evaluate all available facts concerning “flying saucer” sightings.

To perform this task the Air Materiel Command obtained the services of
civilian and military astronomers, psychologists, electronic specialists,
meteorologists, aeronautical engineers, and physicists.

On December 27, 1949, after 375 reported sightings had been investigated, the
Air Force, with the concurrence of the Army and the Navy, announced the findings
of the "flying saucer” project.

The evidence at that time indicated that the majority of the reports of
unidentified flying objects could be accounted for aa misinterpretations of
various conventional objects, a mild form of hysteria, meteorological phenomena,
light aberrations, or loaxes,

There remained, however, a number of unexplained sightings, and the Air
Force has continued its investigations inasmuch as it is an Air Force responsi-
bility to identify and analyze aerial phenomena that could possibly be a menace
to the United States.

Subsequent to December 1949, these investigations have been conducted as
@ normal intelligence function, rather than a special project, by the Air
Technical Intelligence Center, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Dayton, Qhio.

62- §3571-Gep

M2 ee

To date, the Air Force has undertaken to investigate and analyze about
1500 reports dealing with these phenomena. As before, most of the reports were
identified and disposed of as friendly aircraft erroneously reported, known
electronic and meteorological phenomena, light aberrations, hoaxes, and other
known natural occurrences or man-made objects.

The unexplained reports, however, which are in the order of 20 percent of
the total, cannot be definitely associated with these familiar things.

Difficulty in Evaluating Reports

The difficulty in disposing of these unexplained reports is based largely
upon the insufficiency of accurate basic data such as size, shape, composition
and flight characteristics (speed, acceleration, altitude, exact maneuver pattern,
etc.) of the objects,

Although some instruments which are useful in obtaining more accurate data
of this type have been available, the reports based on sightings with these
instruments have been very infrequent and comprise an extremely small percentage
of the total, Moreover, even these reports have not included much of the
information required.

Because of tho inadequacy of this basic data, the Air Force has in the past
devoted its efforts primarily to determining whether these unexplained sightings
indicated the existence of a menace to the United Stetes. Initially it was
believed that some pattern might evolve from the study of a large volume of
reports. To date, no pattern has materialized to reveal anything whatsoever
which can be interpreted as indicative of purpose or consistency or which can be
construed as a menace to the United States. Nonetheless, since these unexplained
sightings persist, the Air Force will continue its investigations, giving the
problem adequate but not frantic attention,

It is now felt, however, that reports from people whose training and
experience in observing aerial objects qualify them to obtain essential data
are the only ones likely to produce material suitable for systematic analysis.
The Air Force is planning to provide additional tools to help these observers
obtain the basic data it needs.

Reports of similar phenomena go back to Biblical times. There have been
flurries of them in various centuries, The current series of sightings began
generally in 196,

There are many reasons why the volume of these reports has increased
materially during the past few years. Aerial activity originated by man has
increased, and people today have a greater curiosity about this activity than
before. Also, our present efficient communication facilitios and news media
provide an incentive for reporting unusual observations, for publicizing them
and for recording them. However, the ability to measure these phenomena does
not seem to have advanced in step with opportunities for observing them. Tho
Air Force believes that most of these phenomena will gradually be understood
es more is known about occurrences in the upper atmosphore.

ee

+e

e»

Sourte of Reports

The majority of reports of aerial phonomena have come from civilians, About
8 percent come from civil airlines pilots, while approximately 25 porcent aro
reported by military personnel. Reports havo been received also from highly
qualified scientists. Although primary significance is attached to reports from
qualified observers, there is no intention to discredit untrained observers.

Radar Sightings

The Air Force has received many reports of unusual images on radar scopos.
It is fairly well established that some of these images are ground objects
reflected from a layer of warm air above the carth (a temporature inversion).

Temperature inversion reflections can givo a return on a radar scope that
is as sharp as that received from an aircraft, Spoed ranges of theso returns
are reportedly from zero to fantastic speods. The "objects" also appear to move
in all directions.

Such radar sightings have resulted in hundreds of fruitless intercept
efforts.

One sciontific theory holds that light can be similarly reflected from a
layer of warm air above the earth and, if proven to be correct, this could
account for some visual sightings.

Bearing out the theory of temperature inversion reflection is an incident
which occurred in January 1951 near Oakridge, Tennessco. Two Air Force aircraft
attempted to intercept an unidentified "object" and actually established a radar
"lock" on the object. Their altitudo at the time was 7,000 fect, The unidentifia
object, according to their radar, appeared to be at an elevation of ten to 25
degrees. Three passes were made in an attempt to close on the object. In each
instance the pilots reported that their radar led thom first upward and then
down toward a specific point on the ground.

Ionized clouds are believed to be the cause of some unidontifiod radar
returns, Thunderstorm activity is identifiable by radar, and radar is used for
the purpose of avoiding thunderstorms. In addition, radar has picked up many
objects first reported as "unidentified phenomena" which were later identified
as aircraft, birds, balloons, ice formations in the air, or other mown aerial
objects or manifestations,

Policy Regarding Attempted Interception

No orders have been issued by the Air Defense Command to ite fighter units
to fire on unidentified aerial phenomena, The Air Defonse Command is charged
with air defense of the United States, and its mission is to attack anything
airborne which 49 known or appoars to be kootile., Thio should not bo intorproted
to moan that om pilots will firo haphazardly on anything thet flies.

-3-

Attempts at interception are not made every time that unidentified images
appear bricfly on an Air Force radear-scopo. Current Air Force interceptors are
short-range, short-duration, high-speod aircraft and can be omployed most
effectively when it is possible to track a target by visual or radar means
80 that its position in the air at some future time may be predicted with a
reasonable degree of accuracy,

Methods of Evaluating

The first step in evaluating sightings of unusual aerial phonomona is to
collect all available data and check it against known airborne objects such as
balloons, aircraft, missiles, meteors, and weathor phenomona, If still unexplained,
reports from reliable sources, with sufficient details, are turned over to
specialists in various scientific fields for furthor analysis.

Future Plans for Evaluating

As stated earlier, there is a need for better reports from trained observers
using adequate equipment, The Air Force intends to implemont its present study
with instruments wherever possible,

The recont dovelopment of special photographic equipment may make it possible
to gather data hitherto unobtainable through ordinary photographic methods. This
equipmont consists of a diffraction grating camera which separates light into its
componont parts (spectrum) and rogisters them on film, Tho principle involved is
that used by astronomers in determining the composition of the stars, In this
manner Air Force scientists may be able to determine the characteristics of the
phenomena and subsequently identify the source,

Another proposal involves the use of a continuously operating Schmidt
telescope equipped with a camera. This telescope has a wide aperture lens and
is capable of covering a cone of 150 degreos or nearly the whole sky from horizon
to horizon. This equipment will make it possible to get on a series of photo-
graphic plates a complete record of what happens in the sky at night.

What, "Saucers" Aro Not

The Air Force has stated in the past, and roaffirms at the present timo, that
theso unidentified aerial phenomena are not a secret weapon, missile or aircraft,
developed by the United States, None of the three military departments nor any
other agency in the government is conducting experiments, classified or otherwise,
with flying objects which could be a basis for the reported phenomena, As far 28
is Imown there is nothing in them that is associated with material or vehiclos
that are dirocted against the United States, from another country or from other
planets.

Your interest in this matter is greatly appreciated. Please call upon us if
we may be of further service.
Sincerely yours,

Ag "PORTER AT L@®

midsummer of 1947, the -. ed
tes Air Force, already concerned
th such problems as.the develop-
f guided missiles and supersonic
e rigging up of radar networks,
ontroversy with the Navy over
n, found itself confronted by
nd completely different, head-
flying saucer. People in every
the country were seeing
strange objects that streaked across the
sky at tremendous speeds, and while
these people, who included such prac-
ticed students of the heavens as air-
plane pilots, farmers, and the Lieutenant
Governor of Idaho, were -not able to
identify the things they had seen, they
were able to describe them vividly and
unforgettably. The newspapers called
the first of these mysterious objects a
flying saucer, taking their cue from the
man who reported having seen it and
who described it as saucerlike, and the
name stuck, although later people re-
ported seeing thingsithat looked like fly-
. ps, flying dimes,
gaslights, flying
flying pie plates.
rious things were
‘utiously quizzical
‘gan to appear in the papers,
and the President and members of Con-
gress received a deluge of letters de.
manding an explanation. Many of the
letter writers had concluded that the
objects, whatever they might be, were
manned by Russians, and that as
as their pilots had reconnoitred suffi-
ciently, they would return loaded with
atomic bombs. Others thought the earth
was being visited by space ships from
another planet. Still others suspected
that our own Air Force was secretly
testing some new form of aircraft.
Everyone agreed, however, that it
was up to the Air Force, as the cus-
todian of our welkin, to explain the
flying objects and, if necessary, to repel
them. The result was the launching
by the Air Force, on January 22, 1948,
of a special investigation, an investiga-
tion that, though it has reached num-
erous conclusions, is still under way
and has yet to put the public mind at
rest.

It appears that, aside from the hope
of reassuring a jittery populace, the Air
Force, in embarking upon this under-
taking, had any or all of three things
in mind. Tt may well have shared the
civilian concern oyer what, if anything,
the Russians might have to do with the
reported phenomena, and it may even
have felt that to insure a thoroughgoing

soon

SOMETHING IN THE SKY

investigation there was certainly no
harm in assuming for the moment that
the era of interplanetary travel had
arrived and the earth had become
an objective for journeys from else-
where in the solar system. Or—and this
would not necessarily exclude the first
two considerations—the Air Force may
have been setting up a smoke screen to
protect, in the interest of national secu-
rity, the secret of some experimental fly-
ing objects of its own that only a trusted
few of its members knew about. What-
ever the purpose, the investigation, with
which I have been in touch from time
to time, has seemingly been exhaustive.
The Air Force personnel originally
jgned to it was later augmented by
psychologists, physicists

meteorologists, physicians, and repr
sentatives of the F.B.I. The inve:
tion, which soon became popularly
known as Project Saucer, was first
headed by LicutenanteG nja-
jen-

tiga-

» GE

eral of the Air Matériel Command,
and its base was, and is, at Wright Field,
Dayton, Ohio. The project’s task turned
out to involve a mixture of old-fashioned
detection, scientific analysis, public rela~
tions, and the study of a widespread
state of mind, In December, 1949,
after checking, over a period of two
years, three hundred and seventy-five
reports of intruders in the sky, the Air
Force publicly called it quits, but Project
Saucer was not actually disbanded. Na-
tional security, the Air Force announced
at the time, was not endangered. The
flying saucers were apparitions, it said,
all attributable either to a failure to
recognize conventional objects, to
hoaxes, or to a mild form of mass hys-
teria. The Air Force, however, did not
let the matter rest there.

Not long after the apparent demise
of Project Saucer, I had a talk in Wash-
ington with Brigadier General Ernest
Moore, then chief of Air Force In-
telligence, in the course of which he
made four categorical statements that
I felt sure he had made many times be-

Clipped from The NEW YORKER

September 6, 1952
pages 64 through 82

——

fore. ‘t.._ off,” he s* a
have nothing to do’
saucers; [ll swear te was
Bibles, if you like.

have any secret ne

that could have star

tion, Third, nobody
spotted space ships : ;
planet. Fourth, ev: investi
gators learned has vailable
to the public.”

Russians
so-called
aa stack of

mt occurred
24,1947,

a business

rm that makes
was flying his

ington. The re-

ash on one wing

turned and, at a

was about twenty

00k to be nine tail-

ig toward Mount

e their outlines quite

he snow,” Air Force

Intelligence quoted him as_ saying.

“They flew very close to the mountain-

tops, directly south to southeast, down

the hog’s-back of the range, flying like

geese, in a diagonal, chainlike line, as

if they were linked together . . . a chain

of saucerlike things at least five miles

long, swerving in and out of the high

mountain peaks. They were flat... and
so shiny that they reflected
the sun like a mirror.” Ar-
nold said he watched the
saucers for three minutes
and estimated their speed at
about twelve hundred miles

an hour.

Air Force technicians,

consulted by newspaper-

Fmen, said that any object

moving that fast would be

invisible to the naked eye at

Arnold’s estimated distance.

The press scoffed at Ar-

nold’s story, and he was re-

sentful. “Even if I see a

ten-story building flying

through the air, I won't

say a word about it,” he de-

clared, and when he got

back to Boise he wrote a series of ar-
ticles about his experience for a mag-
azine called Fate.

No sooner were the skeptical news-
paper accounts printed than dozens of
people turned up with similar re-
ports. Another resident of Boise spotted
a disc over that city, “a half circle in
shape, clinging to a cloud and just as
bright and silvery-looking as a mirror
caught in the rays of the sun.” Lieu-

of Idaho, disclosed that

—s
tenant Governor Donale e

had seen a comet-shaped objece

over the western part of the s
finally dipped below the horiz

said. (Later on, the personnel of Proj-
ect Saucer decided that the Lieutenant
Governor had been looking at either
Saturn or Mercury.) Four cops in Port-
land, Oregon, saw a group of discs
“wobbling, disappearing, and reappear-
ing.”

Reports of other phenomena having
been seen in the skies appeared in the
papers almost da aly. Be eae officers

a, reported

the air at incredible. and leay-

ing no vapor trail; some fishermen off

Newfoundland saw a series of aerial

flashes, silver to reddish in color; a lady

in Oregon watched a group of saucers

nd alerted her

re ghbors gene presence of foreign

gents practicing a secret code in our

skies; an Oklahoma City man saw a

saucer “the bulk of six B-29s;” and

a prospector in the Cascade Moun-

tains of Oregon saw six saucers in a

group, banking in the sun—round,

silent, and not ft ing in formation.” On

the Fourth of July, there were twelve

reports of saucers in widely separated

parts of the United States. One of

these saucers, sighted at Trenton, New

Jersey, was traced to a

fireworks display. Dr. Paul

Fitts, an Ohio State Uni-

versity psychologist who

was for a time attached to

Project Saucer, considered

this crowded condition in

the holiday skies the result

of mass suggestibility, the

same jumpy trait that

caused Americans to see

Zeppelins overhead during

and after the First World

War. “Our graphs show

that saucer incidents al-

ways increase dramatically

after publicity,” he has

since told me. “The sky,

you know, has been a

source of exciting visions

from time immemorial, and its attrac-

tion is particularly strong in our jittery
moments.”

ROM the beginning, the officers in

charge of Project Saucer recognized
a peculiar difficulty in their assignment.
“If you look out the window and see
something, how can I prove or disprove
what it was if I didn’t see it and you
can’t tell me much about what you

page 64

™ Sinzolest. surest |
matic
record changer.

“WVictrola’45

throat”
tone system.
@ Plays up to 14 records at one loading
© The only record and changer designed

© Records change from the center—the
modern way

@ Includes $6 worth of RCA Victor al-
bums at’no extra charge.

Other “

"Victrola” 45 record changers
as low as $16.75.

Only RCAVICTOR

makes the’ Vietrola’ @ 2

‘Tmks. ® Division of Radio Corporation of America

LOVELY TO LIGHT BY...

A candelabrum of

flower and leat
desi of by

work and fnlshed
In livery black
fer. dramatic

nt 914",
ares, e 50
Postag
Cea ins. 75
No €.0.0.'s please.
Open Saturday 9.5

Payne HOUSE OF ITALIAN HANDICRAFTS

217 East 49th St.. New York 17. PL 9-6510

ve night stand

t ¥
| At leading furniture ond deportment stores.
} Send 3:cent stamp. to Dept. N for booklet,

“UNION: JATIONAL, INC. + JAMESTOWN, N.Y.

saw?” Major
then the chief @ss«! ficer between
Wright Field and tIN{high command
in Washington, said to me one day
shortly after Project Saucer had pre-
sumably become a thing of the past.
“Tt would be different if flying sau-
s were known to exist. Then we
could collected evidence indi-
cating the degrees of probability that
such things were sighted and the reason
for their appearance at a given place.
But it is impossible to prove, logically
and with finality, a double negative—
that is, that th re no flying
and that people have not seen fly
he best we could do under the
circumstances was to deduce, first, from
the fact that it had not been proved, that
saucers een seen and,
from the f. pubis theories
could be advanced to explain away all
the reports of seeing them, that probably
nobody had seen them at all. The
fewer the theoretical explanations and
the less plausible they were, the more

~gs, who was

have

second;

son there was for suspecting people
had seen saucers.” The Major shook
his head, and continued, “It’s a difficult
concept to grasp, but so was the job we
were tackling.”

I asked Major Boggs whether there

$s any Way to account for the epidemic
of reports of strange celestial objects.
he replied. “If
you look up at the sky long enough, you

“OF course there is,”

And more
people are looking up now than ever
before. Kids don’t count freight cars
any more; they coun’ People
who were trained in vation
during the war have gone right on
observing. Also, the public hasn’t for=
gotten that the atomic bomb was kept
secret from it for three years. This
time, people want to know what’s cook-
ing, so they look up.” Major B

hed. “Time was when people used
to make a wish if they saw a shoot-
ing star. Now they telephone the Air
Force.”

Major Boggs and I pondered this
unromantic age in silence for a mament.
Then he returned briskly to the prob-
lems that had confronted the investi-
gators. “The one tangible thing we had
to work on was the fact that the sky is
full of things,” he said.
come

$ strange,

“T can’t even
close to estimating the number of
commercial and military aircraft up
there at any given moment. Then, there
are more than five hundred outfits of
one kind or another that release balloons
from time to time. These range from
simple weather balloons, ne” “ger than

page 67,

68

* had behaved like anc 1 aircraft

in the way it ‘err LS: the line
of sight.

Here, the experts professed to hope,

was something Project Saucer could get
its teeth into. The whole flying

auc
mystery might be explained. ‘The first
step was to determine whether the ob-

ct was an aircraft that had been par-
cloud or whose
d been distorted by
storm. “Two hundred and twenty-five
civilian and military flight schedules
were analyzed, and it was found that
one other plane, an Air Force C-47,
had been near the I liner at
the time the mysterious object was
sighted. Conjecture about the C-47
began to appear irrelevant, however,
when the Macon ground crews agreed
with Chiles and Whitted that the thing
they had seen was going much faster

tially obscured by

appearance I

rain

astern. z

than two hundred miles an hour, and
s0,-unless it dawdled around some-
where, wouldn’t have taken anything
like an hour to get from Macon to
Montgomery.

Astronomers went to work on the
problem. Dr. Hynek considered the
possibility that a brilliant, slow-moving
meteor 1

ht be the explanation. Vari-
ous bits of the apparition’s description
encouraged this notion—“orange-red
flame,” “cigar-shaped,” “a tremendous
burst of flame.” Unfortunately, the
flight schedules of meteors are not avail-
able, and Dr. Hynek had no means of
testin

g his hypothesis. “It will have to
be left to the psychologists to tell us
whether the immediate trail of a bright
meteor could produce the subjective im-
pression of a ship with lighted win-

dows,” he wrote in a report on his

findings. The psychologists expressed
the opinion that a meteor could indeed
be mistaken for a space ship. Dr. Fitts,
the Ohio State psychologist, observed
that both Chiles and Whitted were

An utterly new carpet:

creating an unusual textu

Extremely smart .. . for one
human and therefor likely to be a be hates a
victims of mass suggestibility as any- aloeen: Dy Jenne eo

one else. Dr. Fitts told me during a in carpet fashion and luxur;
rists And, of course, Nye-Wait

are used to the fact that even people of advantages of being mothpr:
high mental calibre often make mis- for lasting fit to withstand
takes about what they see. “Also, I will outwear conventi

would like to make the point that pilots Write Nye-Wait for th
i i e Nye- for the.
are trained to instruments,” he said. ‘|

“They grow very dependent on those

talk I had with him that psychole

“struments, and I don’t know whether

re necessarily superior observers

yut them. I do know that during 295 Fifth
i.e war, when I was in the Air Force, New Yor!

pilots frequently gave some pretty odd Chicago, Los Angeles
reports of what they’d seen while fly-
ing their missions.” Chiles and Whitted
readily agreed that their report might

* Illustrated is NY.
visible depth, translucent color and

HIGHBOY DESK in genuine
SOLID mahogany from the New |
Arlington Group by Kling. A
distinctive addition to any room.
At leading stores.

Full color booklet, “Your Bed-
room and You” contains helpful
Suggestions on the care of fur-
niture and bedroom decoration
and arrangement. Send 25¢ in
coin to Kling Factories, Dept. Y9,
Mayville, N. Y.

KLING MEANS

QW, MAtoGaNy

MAPLE * CHERRY.

soft and warm
as eiderdown

Crush a Mariposa Blanket in your hand.
Feel the soft, springy fibers, shown above,
actual thickness. Lay your hands between
the folds. Warmth without weight! Restful
sleep awaits you under a Mariposa
Blanket,

* See the charm of Mariposa Colors at your

ant

ing a routine patrol for th+Nor**-Da-
kota National Guard,and ju. _ked
the tower at the Fargo Municipal Ai
port for clearance to land when he saw
what seemed to be another plane’s tail-
light a thousand yards away. He queried
the tower, and the men there reported
that the only other aircraft over the field
was a Piper Cub. Gorman could see the
Cub plainly outlined below him. Curi-
ous, he flew toward the light. “It was
about six to eight inches in diameter,
clear white, and completely round, with
a sort of fuzz at the edges,” Gorman
later told investigators, adding that he
saw “no outline of anything” around
the edges. “It was blinking on and off.
As I approached, however, the light sud-
denly became steady and pulled into
a sharp left bank. . . . I dived after it
and brought my manifold pressure up
to sixty inches, but I couldn’t catch up
with the thing. It started gaining alti-
tude and again made a left bank. I put
my F-51 into a sharp turn and tried
to cut the light off in its turn. By then,
we were at about seven thousand feet.
Suddenly it made a sharp right turn
and we headed straight at each other.
Just when we were about to collide,
I guess I got scared. I went into a dive
and the light passed over my canopy at
about five hundred feet. Then it made
a left circle about a thousand feet abo
and I gave chase again.” Gorman fol-
lowed the light up to fourteen thousand
feet, where, after another near collision,
his ship went into a power stall and the
light disappeared to the northwest.
Gorman noticed no sounds or exhaust-
trail odors. He had gunned his plane
up to four hundred miles an hour with-
out gaining on the light. It was able to
maintain an extremely steep angle of
ascent, far greater than that of his Air
Force fighter. “When I attempted to
turn with [the light], I blacked out
temporarily, due to excessive speed,” he
said. “I am in fairly good physical condi-
tion and I do not believe there are many,
if any, pilots who could withstand the
turn and speed effected by that light and
remain conscious.”

Project Saucer suspected that Gor-
man was tilting with a weather balloon.
For one thing, it learned that the Fargo
weather station had released a lighted
balloon only ten minutes before Gor-
man’s patrol stopped being routine.
The object’s steady, practically vertical
climb suggested the behavior of a bal-
loon. A technician who once worked on
Project Saucer told me recently that
chasing a weather balloon with an air-
plane is comparable to diving to the

bottom of a pool after a hollow rubber
many saucers
holding one in my ov
The

Wright Field, where it was identif

he said.

80

rancher forwatr

Japanese d
ring the w

loons the hopeful
across the Pacific ¢
effort to start forest fires.

Even pictures taken of supposed sau-
cers failed to impress the experts. There
was the case of a in Ph

man enix,

Arizona, who spotted a flat gray ob-
ject spiralling up and down in the sky
at a speed that he estimated at between
four and five hundred miles an hour.
He snapped two pictures of it with his
Brownie. Prints were rushed to Project
Saucer, and Dr. Irving Langmuir, the
physicist and a Nobel Prize winner, was
asked to study them. The distinguished
that a thund
before the

scientist learned rstorm
had occurred

taking, and concluded that he was loc

just picture-

ing at a couple of rather poor shots
of a piece of paper being buffeted by

the wind.

A time went on and the skies, appar-
ently, continued to teem with fly-
ing saucers, the generals in the Penta-
gon, warming to their task, decided to
enlarge the scope of the investigation.
Commanders of all Air Force installa-
tions in the country were ordered to
assign Intelligence officers to look into
sightings reported in their areas. The
officers were instructed to solicit the as-
sistance of municipal police officials, who
might be familiar with the personalities

B.I. was

pon for assistance, and as-

also called
ned agents to help interview people
who reported that they had

The

naire, drawn up by Air Force Intelli-

seen discs,

ents used a standard question-

ind maneuvers. The
transmitted to Wright

information
Field,

obviously

igual
usually

but stories were so
false and some
ly trifling that the F.B.I. men
bother to fill

Seattle, for

some

“evidence” so obvious-

even out the questi
naire. In
larmed woman called the police to in-
form them that a flam

ed on her roof. The

ent
to be

instance, an

made of plywood, with “USSR
found that a_ turpentine

had caused the fla

A farmer

he decided.

Illinois, reported

crash-landed in one

burned up a patch of w

GOLD OR WHITE LABEL -

MAKE HARD
MATTRESSES

This cozy cotton “pillow” for
your body coaxes sweet sleep
from hard mattresses ond in
beds.
invalids and aged. Easy to carry
out ond sun. $17.95 in blue-&-
white ACA, $19.95 in rose, blue
or green damask, full or twin
sizes, shipping charges prepaid.
Immediate shipment —

ferior Special boon to,

Abso|
lute

Aranyish
Med

DIRECT MATTRESS CO.

1g. stores or write

on the retina and moving as the eye

moves. e@
Other elements of th®@uc@problem

were studied by such men as Dr. George
Valley, a nuclear physicist at the Massa-
chusetts Institute of Technology; staff
members of the research firm of Rand
Corporation; an assortment of physici:
and aerodynamicists who specialize in
the study of the stratosphere and the
space beyond jit; and the electronics ex-
perts attached to the Cambridge Field
Station. These men were all se

for physical rather than psychologic:
explanations, and some fairly strange
theories occurred to them—the possibil-
ity that extraterrestrial animals were

flying into our atmosphere, for example.
(No data turned up to support that ar-
resting idea.) The theory that the sau-
cers were hostile aircraft was carefully
studied and rejected. “The perform-
ances of these saucers not only surpass

the development of present science but
the development of present fiction-sci-
ence writers,” one scientist noted. The
specialists also considered and rejected
the concept of discs capable of riding the
air on beams or rays of some kind. The
even speculated on whether the anti-
gravity shield that H. G. Wells thought
up for his novel “The First Men in the
Moon” would work; it wouldn’t, they
decided. The supposition that interplan-
etary craft were whizzing in at us ¥
also. discredited, despite its popularity
with laymen. Space ships, the scientists
thought, would have to be so large and
unwieldy that they couldn’t possibly zig-
zag as frivolously as the reported saucers
did. Besides, a space ship, regardless o|
size, could not, in the opinion of these
men, carry sufficient fuel to remain for
any length of time in the earth’s dense
atmosphere. The scientists noted, too,
that the supposed spacemen showed a re-
markable lack of interest in the rest of
the world, being, it would seem, almost
unanimous in their desire to see America
first. “The small area covered by the
disc barrage points strongly to the belief
that the flying objects are of earthly
origin, be they physical or psycholog-
ical,” one of the scientists reported.
From the report turned in by the
astronomers, I learned that they, in ad-
dition to seining out comets, meteors,
chondrites from the
s people were seeing in
the skies, had also thoughtfully con-
sidered our planetary neighbors. ‘The
old question of the possibility of life on
Mars took on a new urgency, and anew
corollary: If there are living creatures
on Mars, would they be capable of
building space ships? The astronomers

FOR STORE NEAR
WRITE HAYMAKERS BY AYON. £
47 WEST 34TH ST.. NEW YC

OR SEND CHECK OR MONEY ORDER DIRECTLY T

that—that while the infozmation they
give me may be i GQ their
names never will be.” Sm cases,
Captain Ruppelt said,
has shown that the people he has

viewed had been deceived by things
that have been deceiving others all

investigation

along—balloons, planes, meteors, and
so on—but a nettling residue of around
twenty per cent of the cases have wound
up in that exasperating old pigeonhole
abelled “Unidentified.” Nothi for
found to account
“something silvery ectly
overhead” reported by a mystified Civil
Aeronautics Administration inspector at
Terre Haute. A commercial pilot who,
flying near Battle Creek, Michigan,
spotted “an oval-shaped silver object”

example, could be
for the

ahead of his ship, posed a similarly un-
solved problem, as did ah
naval officer, stationed at the dirigible
base at Lakehurst, New Jersey, who re-
ported that he had stared through his
binoculars at a brilliant image making
turns that were far too tight for any
known aircraft.

Twenty-five per cent of the observ-

hly respected

ers interrogated by the Aerial Phenom-
ena Officer in the last two and a half
years have been military pilots. Eight
per cent have been commercial pilots,
some with as much as twenty years’ ex-
perience in the air, and at one stage in
the current phase of the investigation,
even a few physicists at Los Alamos,
New Mexico, men who make a fetish
of objectivity, were interviewed after
they reported having seen puzzling
lights hovering above their atomic-
energy laboratories. “If you took
any one of these incidents by itself,
Captain
“But in view of the

it might not mean much,”
Ruppelt said.
number and calibre of the informants,
you couldn’t help taking their claims
seriously.”

In February, 1951, Dr. Urner
Liddel, a nuclear physicist attached to
the Office of Naval Research, at Wash-
ington, D.C., declared that at last,
thanks to the lifting of certain security
restrictions, he could provide the solution
to the mystery of the flying saucers:
They were “skyhooks,” he sa val-
loons a hundred feet in diameter, which
the Navy had secretly been sending up
for the past four years in order to
study cosmic rays. Dr. Liddel’s asser-
tion was immediately disputed by Dr.
Anthony O. M
head of the Air Force’s Atmospheric
Composition Bureau, had assisted in the
diagnosis of Project Saucer reports. Dr.
Mirarchi

rchi, who, as former

id he thought the saucers
might be missiles from some foreign

HAVE YOU GRASPED
THE Southwick wea?

Here is tailoring so completely flexil
natural that the comfort contrast is rec
markable, Once you experience the blissf
and casual distinction of SUPERFLEX co
tion, you'll never go back to over-stuffed
styled clothes. Suits from $70. Sports
from $55.
gts L
JOHN WANAMAK
ROBERT K

GRIECO BROS., Inc., 200 Fift

HIGHLIGHTS IN 14K GOLD

Present her with a smart acce}
the school year right and acc
Ring $40. 17J Movado
(Available in stainld
Poodle charm $53.50
Cut-out initials (Allow one wed

Shown Actual Size * Fed
Mail and Phone Orders Filled

BLACh, STARE

FIFTH AVENUE AT 48TH STR

EAST ORANGE MANHASS

The Mark Cross
OXFORD SHIRT

More popular than ever — even for
city wear — the button-down collar
shirt in finest oxford, woven with
fully combed yarn. Button cuffs,
14%4-17% collar, 32-35 sleeve. White
or blue. 35,50

With it —an imported silk knit
hand-framed for Mark Cross. Black,
navy, grey, brown, green, wine. $5.50

Mail and phone orders filled, SU 7-4000

TOY BAGPIPE
Easy to Play—only $4.98

Complete with blowpipe, drones, chaunte
plaid ba

ribbons, thi:

wuthenti

to play popular tunes in a matter of min-
. Made of washable
itary and strong.
dren and grown ups
at parties and family songfests. Satisfaction guaran
teed or your money back. Send check or money order
ior only $4.98 (includes how-to-play song folder) to:

TIMESAVERS DEPT., Dept. NY-9
2 West 45th St. New York 19, N. Y.

MRS. KARO'S

HAND LAUNDRY

160 EAST 62nd STREET
TEmpleton 8-6516
Specialists in silks, , table linens, shirts;
at moderate rates.
Laundering for the finest homes

st by reading number

act

fourtees minutes, Piermaygyy
bright lights that resemb! tas
shooting stars, but three of them were
moying horizontally, unlike any shoot-
ing Star he had ever seen. Another com-
mercial pilot who was reached in flight
nearby said that he saw a light off his
left wing; Barnes found a corresponding
pip on the radarscope. Other pilots in the
vicinity reported, however, that they
could see nothing unusual. Toward
daybreak, ten peculiar pips were counted
multaneously on Barnes’ screen.
ion I can
reach but that for hours on: the
morning of the twentieth of July there
were at least ten unidentifiable objects
moving above Washington,” Barnes
wrote. “They were not ordinary air-
ft.... Nor in my opinion could any
natural phenomena account for these
spots on our radar, Neither shooting
stars, electrical disturbances, nor clouds
could, either. Exactly what they are, I
don’t know. Now you know as much
about them as I do, And your guess is
as good as mine.”

A week later, at 9:08 p.m. on
July 26th, the Air Route Traffic Con-
trol Center’s rad ‘ope again showed
unidentifiable objects over Washing-
ton. So did the screen at the Andrews
Air Force Base, just outside the capi-
tal. Two jet interceptors, capable of
doing six hundred miles
were dispatched from a base near New
Castle, Delaware, to investigate. When
the interceptors appeared on the radar-
scopes, they were guided toward the
objects. One of the pilots sighted
four lights approximately ten miles
in front of his plane and slightly above

“cr

There is no other conclu:

n hour,

it, but they vanished while he was
trying to overtake them. ‘Twenty

minutes later, he saw “a steady white
light,” but within a minute it, too,
disappeared. “We have no evidence
they were flying saucers,” an Air Force
representative said later. “Conversely,
we have no evidence they were not
flying saucers. We don’t know what
they were.”

As a result of these two incidents,
particularly the one involving the inter-
ceptors, public agitation reached a new
height. The Air Force was bombarded
with hundreds of letter:
and telegrams demanding information
and offering advice. One of the smaller
airlines supplied its crews with cameras
and ordered them to photograph any
saucers they encountered. A civilian
wrote to the Air Force that he would
let it in on “the secret” in return for a
colonelcy. A Los Angeles pastor wrote
to Einstein, beseeching him to clear up

telephone calls,

(|
‘
‘

page

79

80
——

tronomers, whom }* “alled “our best

advisers... in tj 2ss of visitors
from Cowher the sky
continuously, but they had reported no
saucers. The General was reminded
that many of the people who had told of
seeing the most spectacular things were
considered the most reliable. He replied
that he had no intention of discrediting
them, but the fact remained that none
of them had offered data of the kind a
scientist would find useful. An Air
Force officer whom General Sam-
ford personally knew to be a com-
petent witness had told him of seeing
a saucer in-the Middle East. This
man, too, had been unable to obtain ac-
curate measurements. ““We have many
reports from credible observers of in-
credible things,” the General remarked.

Like General Moore, his predecessor
in Project Saucer days, General Sam-
ford denied that the Air Force was at-
tempting to cover up secret experiments.
When he was asked if the saucers might
be the guided missiles of a foreign coun-
try, he replied that he didn’t see how, on
the basis of their weird performances,
they could be unless “someone” had
achieved a means of developing unlim-
ited power—“power of such fantastic
higher limits that it is a theoretical un-
limited; it’s not anything that we can
understand”—and utilizing it under
conditions in which no mass is involved.
As for the latter, the General told the
press, drawing a laugh, “You know,
what ‘no m means is that there’s
nothing there.”

HILE General Samford’s inter-
w probably reassured the pub-
lic as evidence that the Air Force was
still on the job, it did nothing to |}
the nation’s saucer-consciousness.
reporters had hardly thanked the Gen-
eral for his comments when, on Au-
gust Ist, a Coast Guard photographer
produced a picture showing four bizarre
lights burning brilliantly in a daylight
sky. He said he had taken it over Salem,
Massachusetts. The next day, a Har-
vard astrophysicist called the photograph
worthless because it was accompanied by
no scientific data, such as temperature
distribution and altitude. On August
6th, an Army physicist at Fort Belvoir,
Virginia, created the equivalent of flying
saucers in his laboratory by introducing
molecules of ionized air into a partial
vacuum in a bell jar, and three days
later an internationally known authori

ty on atmospheric conditions said of the

physicist’s experiment, “I know of no
conditions of the earth’s atmosphere,
high or low, which would duplicate

page 81, 82

Invoice of Contents from ® »
YoDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION -
WASHINGTON, D. C.

Date October 6,.1952 Case References _ INVESTIGATION OF POSSIBLE /
Directorate of Special Invest. UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECT
Consigned tdthe Inspector General
Department of the Air Force, The Pentagon
Washington, D. C.
Att: Mr. Gilbert R. Levy
List of Contents *
PC-33951DE

. Harbo, 7625
through 6 . Conrad, 7142

4U97363 . Downing, 6228 IB -

through K3 ef . Bowles, 7601

: MAILED 4 i cv . Parsons, 7121

A

REGISTE ‘ED: MAIL}... COMMPFEILD I es
} j

ease Usk» wh )
SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS: ‘Mail Room, place date of shipment and registry number; Shipping Room, ‘show
date of shipment and initial this invoice; then return it to person whose name is checked in column at
right. After this checked name has been initialled, invoice should be placed in administrative file.

October 28, 1952

Director of Special Investigations
The Inspector General

Department of the Air Force

The Pentagon

Washington 25, De Ce

From: John Edgar Hoover, Director
Federal ert age of Investigation

ncn . 143
RECORDED - 4% 2 92964 b-9Zy

Subjects FLYING SAUCERS

There are attached for your tnfornation
@ copy of a self-explanatory letter dated UYetober 21,
1952, and the enclosures therete, received by this
Bureau from Mr. HNarvel ¥. Reece.

Hr. Reece has been advised that his letter
has been referred to your Department. Ho further action
ts being taken in this matter by this Bureau.

4 tte dale at

\
EHMzcem:mes _
of
ft

But}

jy 40 838 8 |

qgits

wana ve

iol

Ie

phe :

COCKTAIL LOUNGE
DINING ROOM
CAFETERIA STYU

Wasnincton -D-C

18TH AND H.ST.N.W
PHONE NA 9216

2/- 70-5 ®

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

DATE: October a |

/

Meg ey Ur. oR, ant 77 K

\ suasect: Opry yng SAUCERS

Reference is made to an article which appeared in

‘ew Yorker" dated September 6, 1952, which is attached.
This article which was written by Daniely
inaccurate information regarding FBI inves
cating that the FBI conducts certain inquir:
flying saucers at the request of the Air Force. It is
pointed out here that, although the Bureau did at one time
conduct some investigations regarding flying saucers, a
present agreement has been set up with the Air Force whereby
the Air Force conducts all investigations pertaining to flying
saucers and the Bureau, upon receiving complaints of this nature,
nerely turns the complaints over to the Office of Special
Investigations (OSI), which in turn transmits the information
to Air Intelligence. Air Intelligence has set up the Air
Technical Intelligence Center at Wright-Patterson Air Force
Base, Dayton, Ohio, for the purpose of coordinating and handling
of research pertaining to flying saucers.

Inquiry was conducted in order to determine, if
possible, the source for the information appearing in the
attached article regarding FBI investigations. Lieutenant
Colonel L. L. Free in charge of the Espionage Branch,
Counter-Intelligence Division, Office of Special Investigations,
advised that no one in OSI has been contacted by Lang, and he
suggested direct contact by the Bureau Representative with
Air Intelligence to determine if Lang had been in touch with
anyone in that organization in order to gather information for
his article.

Colonel C. M. Young, Executive Officer to Major
General John A. Samford, Director of Air Intelligence, advised
_that Lang has not contacted General Samford's office.
Colonel Young also telephonically contacted Captain Ruppelt
of the Air Technical Intelligence Center, Wright-Patterson
Air Force Base, Dayton, Ohio, on September 30, 1952. Captain i]
Ruppelt advised Colonel Young that they have never indicated pets |W
in any way to Mr. Lang that the FBI has an interest in flying ye
saucers, Captain Ruppelt stated that the FBI to his knowledge 4
has never been called upon to furnish reports on flying saucers.
Ruppelt is under the impression that Mr. Lang made the story up \\)
or picked it up from some magazine or newspaper article sometime, \
back. Both Colonel Young and Captain Ruppelt are thoroughly av Ye
familiar with Bureau policy pee to flying es 1 ne

GoreoRe 9 1957 INDEXED - WE-y

uneekeonte (2) RECORDED - 116 nae

foo)

Qo

3

=>

S

w

-

=

=

an

~
é fae
q 2
= 5 =
J33
z w
oO > La
= Se
b- MN
ag
be hacked
So ¢

UG. WYSE G g Jp

ede? p 8 490

‘Idd
ANOW138 0.034

Memorandum for Mr. A. H. Belmont, 10/8/52

Colonel Young suggested that further contact be made with
Ur, Albert Chop of the Office of Public Information, Office of
the Secretary of Defense, who represents the Air Force in
public relations contacts pertaining to flying saucer matters.

Ur. Chop was contacted and advised that he was familiar
with the attached "New Yorker" magazine article. He advised
that Lang had gathered most of the material about two years ago
when considerable publicity regarding flying saucers had appeared
in newspapers. He does not know where Lang gathered the material
at that time but assumes that he gathered it from various sources,
such as other newspaper articles. When the recent publicity
regarding flying saucers appeared in newspapers, Lang renewed
his interest in flying saucers and attempted to bring his
article up to date. He contacted Mr. Chop for further current
information. Mr. Chop advised that he gave Lang some routine
items of interest regarding flying saucer complaints and
investigations by the Air Force, but that he instructed Mr. Lang
not to contact the Air Technical Intelligence Center for further
information from that source. Mr. Chop also advised that at
no time was the FBI mentioned and that he has no idea where
Lang obtained the information appearing in his article concerning
FBI investigations. Mr. Chop advised that he is thoroughly
familiar with Bureau policy pertaining to flying saucer investt-
gations,and that he at no time has indicated to any writer or
newspaper representative that the FBI conducts investigations
pertaining to flying saucers. Mr. Chop advised that, if the
Bureau desires, he would be glad to contact Lang to discreetly
determine where Lang obtained his information indicating that the
FBI conducts investigations pertaining to flying saucers. He
stated that he could make this contact without indicating in
any way the Bureau has contacted him. He was advised that his
offer of cooperation was appreciated, but that it was not
desired that he make such an inquiry at the present time.

There is attached a current mimeographed form containing
current information regarding the whole flying saucer matter
which was turned over by Chop. This is the information which

q

Memorandum for Mr. A. H. Belmont, 10/8/52

is ordinarily given to newspaper reporters or writers who
make inquiry in the Office of Public Information.

ACTION:

None. For your information.

sTAWOrRO FORT NO. 64 @ . 2 e

Office Memorandum * UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

1 of
ur. A. He BELMONTO” aE ote arudry Sale 7

FROM : Ve P. KEAY//J; yy ate

SUBJECT: ‘ FLYING SAUCERS Yr

ta
( / . ”

lee__
oun,

Narto_

SYNOPSIS: eae

‘recy,
Pe

Air Intelligence advised of another creditable and_

unezplainable sighting of flying saucers. Air Intelligenc
still feels flying saucers are opti roy ae
pherical phenomena but some Military 2. Gre SeRbOUsbYy
considering possibility of interplan tary ships.

BACKGROUND:

You will recall that Air Intelligence has previously
kept the Bureau advised regarding developments pertaining to Air
Intelligence research on the flying saucer problem. Air Intelligence

has previously advised that all research pertaining to this problem
is_ handled by the Air Technical. In gence Center located at
Wright-Patterson Airforce Base, Dayton, Ohio; that approximately
90 per cent of the reported sightings of flying saucers can be
discounted as products of the imagination and as erplainable objects
such as weather balloons, etc., but that a small percentage of
extremely creditable sightings have been unerplainable.

DETAILS:

Colonel C. M. Youn Executive Officer to Major General
John As Samford,..Director of intelligence, Air Force, advised on
October..23, 1952, that another recent extremely creditable sighting
had been reported to Air Intelligence. A Wavy p Vovographer, while
traveling across thé United States in his own car, saw a number of
objects in the sky which appeared to be flying saucers. He took
approrimately thirty-five feet of motion-picture film of these
objects. He voluntarily submitted the film to Air Intelligence who
had it studied by the Air Technical Intelligence Center. Experts
at the Air Technical Intelligence Center have advised that, after
careful study, there were as many as twelve to sirteen flying objects
recorded on this film; that the possibility of weather balloons, f,
cloud other explainable objects has been completely ruled out; y)

a complete loss to erplain this most recent aed

creditable sigh g The Air Technical Intelligence Center experts
pointed out that they could not be optical illusions inasmuch as
optical illusions could not be recorded on film.

Wo? of ay 007 30 1982"

fe Wi 2s @ oelld tS y GM.
{

d
nosivi NOS {4 i NO

41 ig
NOS " At

| yilitzary offi

Memo to Mr. A. H- Belmont FLYING SAUCERS
from Ve. P. Keay

Colonel. Young.advised that Air Intelligence still feels
that the so-called flying saucers are either optical illusions or
atmospherical phenomena. He pointed out, however, that some
Mi ffi 3 are seriously considering the possibility of

interplanetar r
ACTION:

This is for your information.

October 28, 1952

Mr. H#arvel \Reece, CoT.Ss Ne
1578 Van Fandt Road
Cincinnati 31, Ohio

Dear Mr. Reece:

ANG

I want to thank you for your letter and the
enclosures which you forwarded to this Bureau.

I have taken the liberty of forwarding a
copy of your letter and the enclosures thereto to
the Department of the Air Force, inasmuch as the

natter referred to in your letter tse within the
jurisdiction of that Department.

Stncerely yours,

|
; \@a=
John Edgar Hesber,;
Sirseter es 0C,(30 1952
137
EHM:cémsmes ,)) : CAF Sor ete

ZV -

Note: The Records Section has been unable to locate a cross
reference on the name Narvel WoodrowyRtece (64-32001-1-135,

encl. page 7). In view of the ififormation contained in 64-32001-1,
it is not believed the reference will be pertinent in this instance.|
This action is being taken to expedite the Bureau's reply to the
correspondent. Wile mentioned above concerns name check requests.

OG; HAS |p Gz 49g

jth iidotigaa §>
aie q ij ;

WOO tee gA13

LNow

NUMEROUS REFERAICE 4n22c

eS cRRARGSEE 2 co
 Supervigor Ty podturre, Room J 7d”

4, i 2

i Exact Spelling Searchers,
All References Initial_ 7 7

Subversive Ref. Date /¢-2 2
Mail File
Restricted to Locality of

FILE NUMBER

Initialed

2, Ake

FEBR2 41953

18

6OFrER 9 1953

JLSAP 30 idaaS A

lad
GaAI903y

EG. WY 60 1] 92 muy
3aN0C UW

ALL INFORMATIO 1M CONTAINED

SUM Sb-Leyale fal

DAIL

Comp FAN, S36

Oo FEB 161953

, (b) (3) (A)

(b) (3) (B)
», (b) (3) (B)

/ 0)
" igoRDED-24 |- 2A
Date: February 11, 1953

To: Director of Special Investigations
The Inspector General
Department of the Air Force
The Pentagon
Washington 25, De Ce

From: John Edgar Hoover, Dtrector
Federal Bureau of Investigation

6
Subject: FLYING DIScs
MISCELLANEOUS + INFORMATION CONCERNING

There are attached for your information tn
the capttoned matter a Photostat of a letter dated
January 20, 1958, received by this Bureau from
Mr. Robert De Wolf, 19 North Forsythe Street, Franklin,
Indiana, with the enclosures referred to therein, and a
copy of this Bureau's reply to Ure Wolf.

No investigation is being conducted by this
Bureau tn this matter.

1953

Mr. Robert D. Wolf
19 North Forsythe Street
Franklin, Indtang

Dear Ur. Wolf:

Your letter dated January 20, 1953, has
been recetved, together with enclosures.

Although I would like to he of service
in conneotton with your request, I would ltke to
point out that the FBI ta strictly a fact-finding
agenoy and it ts not within the scope of its
prescribed authority to make evaluations or draw
conelustons as to the character or integrity of
any organization or individual. JI know you tll
understand the reason for this rule and will ap-
prectate my inability to be of assistance to you
tn thts regard.

he literature and letter you forwarded
are being returned.

Sincerely yours,

JAN 28 1953
MAILED 20 John Sdgar Hoover

Dtreetor

Nae Liv
- Indianapolis, with copy oj incoming and copy of letter
signed by itbert XK... Bender.
w Haven, with copy ‘of incoming and copy of letter
ilbert Ky Bender.
INTION SAC'S':’ (seeynext page)

GG te E18

jjiesi 30 1430.5

Ta4

wods eR. TANRTY

ATTENTION SAC's: Correspondent also enclosed a copy of
the January 19, 1953 issue of "Space Review", the publication
of The International Flying Saucer Sureau, indicating the
address as Post Office Bor 241, Bridgeport, Connecticut,
This small periodical contains news of various I.F.S.B.
groups throughout the United States and England and news
items relating to flying saucers,

No references can be located in Bufiles on the I.F.S.B.;
"Space Review" or Albert K. Bender

| JOHNSON COUNTY
DEPARTMENT OF CIVIL DEFENSE

MONROE AND JACKSON STREETS
FRANKLIN, INDIANA

ROBERT D. WOLF
Director 20 January 1953

Mr. J. Edgar Hoover
Director Federal Bureau of Investigation
Washington, D. C.

Deer Sir:

I would first like to apologize for writing to you direct, however, I have
cleared this morning with our State Director end he suggests this procedure.

We have been having some success with our Ground Observation Corps as we have

four: (4) posts here in the count ye 4 y /
fa

Last Fall I wes contacted by oné of our local business men WEting™tO kiiow if
I would be interested in joining tpofint ernational Flying Saucer Bureau. I told him
that I would and did join with the idea fully in mind of having the local people who
are interested in Flying Saucers also work in our Civil Defense Program. We are
only too willing to co-operate in any wey we can with Civil Defense. The city of
Franklin is approximately twenty (20) miles southwest of Indianapolis, on the dual
lane highway US #51.

H a enclosing a letter which was received last October, as well as the current

Would like to know if this organization has been cleared or

] issue o.
[

I would appreciate your expediting this information back to us so that we will
know what steps to take in further enlisting interested persons in our program,

If you do not require the enclosures please return thems

Home Address:
19 North Forsythe St.
Franklin, Indiana.

BECORDED-84
INDEXED-84

The
BENDER International Blying Saucer Bureau INTERNATIONAL

nt and Editor 3 3)
sete “All is possible to one who believes” HEADQUARTERS
P. ©. BOX 241

BRIDGEPORT 2, CONN.
U.S.A.

*

Great Britain Branch
les fs 6, 1952 71 Chedworth Road
October 2? :
INTERNATIONAL » 1952 Horfield,
COUNCIL r Bristol 7, England

T N. WEBSTER

ELLIOTT ROCKMORE
Editor - Publisher
nicer Review”
GEORGE D. FAWCETT ny you about
Lecturer - Sauceriana : a a 1g our organization
Collection
STANLEY E. CROUCH a ;
Editor - Science and letter you asked what cours
ears) Mageone ax: > should take in connection with
followir

FRANKLIN M. DIET
Editor and Publisher
“Science - Fantasy and ) ; peas
Science Picton” ? sens 3 a of the

= s opoint

*
BRITISH REPRESENTATIVE

BL PL ETT
Retired Capt. Sth Army

6b you
portion
-etained

The
ALBERT K. BENDER International Blying Saucer Bureau

‘ P. ©. BOX 241
Presiden: and Editor ‘All i ieves”’

‘All is possible to one who believes ne Bes Acseeld
MAX KRENOEL 8 se

Vice-Pres. and Treas. U.S. A.

ALLAN C. RIEVMAN
Secretary

)II(

ort to IFSB all reports and sightings in
ur area. However, first put the sightings
ore your group and let them judge whether
ey are authentic or mot.

Ke a recora of ail Civ memoers in your area
and their activities as 2 as I¥S8 in concerned.

in if possible (merel; st stion), a tape
sordér so that you can send actual voice to
3B heedquarters. In th way, I as President,
could send messages for ) to play at your local
meetings. In the future I may even vay your city
a visit and attend one of ir meetings.

These are all merely sugyestions for you to ponder over

f you decide to adopt any of them please consult with

Indiana Represent: tive, Mr. C bell. After you have
is, get in touch with me at »>nce.

Sincerely hope that thes sug bior wil hel

ng some move as to what ) I Sal roup will do,

Forever Looking Up,

rt K. Sender
ivent

‘

Space Reuceu

Copyright 1953 by ALBERT K. BENDER

VOL. II, No. 1 January, 19‘ Bridgeport, Conn., U.S.A
IFSB OF BRITAIN ORGANIZES

FRANKLIN, INDIANA JOINS EN MASS

een organized in
world that ha

Organization. Throug!

and work of Mr. Louis | rahm,

an, Mr. Jack W. Moore, police-

Robert Wolf, civilian defense

nd Mr. Dick Ca npbell, IFSB

3 Representative for Indiana. this great ac-

oustge grees np nee mp! was made possible. At this
ng the IFSB in the dlication, Franklin can claim 20 men
us articles have ne f i ten from nearly towns {

NL iocal

y Society, Aero-Dyn

reporters, and flying sau

nome,

Moore

wed in

Pu DUR PRESIDENT HEARS FROM
oo ee PROF. EINSTEIN
O RICAN REPRESENTATIVE ps

B

Dusiness
Punta San
BIS

[FSB g1

SPACE REVIEW

SAUCERS IM THE NEWS

MAYAGUEZ, PUERTO Rico, Oct. 3, 1952—
Strange objects were sighted by two per-
sons in Mayaguez on Oct. 3, they were
ruising East and were red in color. It was
out 10:30 p.m. when they were sighted.

Norway AND SWEDEN, Oct. 13, 1952—
During October the Norwegian Govern-
ment stated that a strange object resemb-
ling a saucer landed on Norwegian soil.
German experts are claiming that the de-
vices are of Russian origin, and the des-
ription given by Norway fits the descrip-
on given by German experts. Stockholm,
sweden, has also been sighting strange
objects

MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA, Sept. 13, 1952

-A young woman sighted a noiseless
green ball flying too fast to be a plane or a
meteor. She sa smelled like a rotten

2 O 0
egs

wy, Nov. 1, 1952
ag of the third Inter-
ational Astros cal Congress in Ger
nany where 200 s entists from 12 cos
tries gathered they stated that saucers
not from Mars or any other planet
said they are merely optical and

STUTTGART, ‘
At the recen

Lisa 5

New YorK—A terrife air
place over a small area of
¢ N_Y., which broke windows,
racke< walks and caused general
nic. There were no planes around
eduled at that time, Oct. 1952

ERNATIONAL AIRPORT, NEW YORK,
kt. 16. 1952—A blue flame flashed over
mal Airport at 7:33 p.m. It was

ll-like object. Hayden Planeta-

ul stated it may have been the
f a meteor.

tk, YORK, ENGLAND, Sept 20,
1s During exercise ‘‘Mainbra RAF
pilots sighted a white object a 000
feet. The object was silver in color and
circular. It intained a slow forward
speed before beginning to descend, swing-
ng i | It followed the air-

revolved ) Own axis af mes

then took

WasHINcTON, D.C., Oct. 16, 1952—-The
Navy announced that it launched rockets
from giant balloons, high above the North
Geomagnetic Pole, sod sent them to alt:-
tudes of about 40 miles. The balloons were
as tall as a 10-story building.

PARIS, FRANCE, Oct. 7, 1952-— A flying
saucer was sighted over Southern France
y two Air France pilots.

WESTERN KOREA FRONT, Oct. 29, 1952

U.S. troops saw a half-dozen mysterious
park-throwing ‘‘cartwheels’’ over the wes-
tern front of Korea. They were as the eye
ices, 18 inches in diameter, moving in a
15-foot circle.

GAILLAC, SOUTH OF FRANCE, Oct. 29,
1952-—For the second time in two weeks,
20 townspeople of Gaillac saw a series of
white circular objects, slightly swollen at
the center, spinning across the sky, they
were flying in formation of two and were
grouped around something that looked
like a giant flying cigar. As the objects
passed overhead they. let fall a sort of
string of bright wh#te threads, which set-
tled gentiy on trees and telephone lines
When the people tried to pick them up,
they melted like ice. A police officer who
picked up some of the thread said: “It
looked Jike glass wool and it melted away
almost as soon as it was touched.”

OLORON, FRANCE, Oct. 17, 1952—About

a dozen people, including a schoolmaster,
saw flying saucers surrounding a long cigar
like object flying through a clear sky at
ibout 6,000 feet.

New ZEALAND—The clippings and stor-
ies from New Zealand are swamping our
office and are so numerous that we must
devote a whole page to them in our April
issue.

For move detatled information on an)

write to IFSB

tie date your clippings that you send

. and note the source.

SPACE REVIEW

SUTTON, WEST VIRGINIA MONSTER MAY BE

““COLLIER’S”

ROCKET!

Rev. S. L. Daw, Washington, D.C., Representative, IFSB

I have personally photographed flying saucers six times and
place where one landed in Charleston, West Virginia. I also tal

rsonally photographed
alked to two eye-witnesses.

| ‘sat: antl talked to police officer who was burned by one in Wheeling, West Virginia.

My own cousin was the doctor who treated him.
to photograph one going over Melessa Pass, 5000 feet up in the Blue

i atte my tec 4

Ridge mountains, as I was at a height of 2500 feet at Wahala Glen just directly opposite

from Melessa Pass. The picture was not too good due to the mist from the mountains.
The object that landed at Charleston, West Virginia was described as a large metal

ball, throwing off a white light and after landing, two small men in red emerged from

a trap in the

got back in vad feck off. We can prove what
the moon
a jet pro;
smal] per

This was described in Colher’s

A. cording to the Washington Daily News
magazine. The picture on the cover of the maga-
ws a sphere-headed, wide-botromed, tank-bellied rocket craft spewing out burning

the rocket described in Collie

could
zine St

there is a device with the motors on
elled apparatus which throws off a large meta
trom the center which when reflected could easily
nagazine of October 11,

and climbed up a tree to look around. Seeing people watching them, they
thes was: In the grt to shoot rockets to

the nies and the body of the device is

shaped disc which throws off a
taken for some sort of a
1952.

the monster seen at Sutton, West Virginia

hydrazi ne and nitric acid as it lands hind-end on the moon. The West Virginia people
aimed to have

seen: “An object estimated a
pe of a man. Two lights flashed
ike gas escaping, ans sharp sicken

The United States may be expe
of, and it is domng its best to keep
corner.

10 feet tall, four feet wide at the bottom
om side to side, the machine made a noise
as about.’’ Sounds somewhat the same.

ith something that the public is not aware
The age of rocket ships is just around the

CIVILIAN SAUCER INVESTIGATION OF NEW ZEALAND
CONTACTS IFSB

The Civilian Saucer Ins
October 13, 1952. They plan
affiliation with the Government
may belong. Most of the mem
five years. ane y reeenent all
man in the street. The committee
attached to engir saieenchi, who is
of the Territo il Air Force,
tion engineering inspector; D
an astronomer and eng:

have beer
sted parts
isists of M
President
the secret
a stu

wh
Aris,
Greager,
ommittee ;
n of flying

Aims of the «
nately find the orig:

Mr. H. H. Fulton, and Mr. R
IFSB. We hope to estat
New Zealand. CSI sent to It

rs have been sighted wit
made in our next issue. &

ill be a success.

orrespon
s and th
La

lish

of Nes
e or disapprove
urmed for

Zealand was set up in New Zealand on
the existence of saucers. It has no
of tO any society to which its members
studying flying saucer reports for at least
astronomers, scientists, aviators, and the
i. H. Fulton, a sergeant in the R.N.Z.A.F.
CSI of NZ; Mr. R. J. Lavaris, a member
of CSI of NZ; Mr. G. H. Gilmore, avia-
studying for a science degree; and E. J.
h kindred bodies overseas, and to ulti-
nparison.
heen made members of the International
elations with this society and get a rep-
arge map of New Zealand showing all
ry of each sighting. A complete report
CSI of New Zealand the best of luck

SPACE REVIEW

EDITORIAL

In 1492 Columbus discovered a new world after traveling thousands of miles across
the great expanse of unknown waters called the Atlantic Ocean. It was a great adventure,
yet one that was laughed at, ridiculed, and even spoke of es a ‘‘folly’’.

Here was a small group of men searching for what lay beyond the known, endeavor-
ing to unfold the mysteries of lands that were not supposed to exist. All they had were
three smal] ships laden with provisions that they estimated would last the journey.

The seas were infested with monsters, so the skeptics said, and the world was flat
with a dropping off place. Columbus proved these fallacies to be wront, when he landed
in the West Indies.

The years directly ahead of us will see amother great adventure such as this. A smail
group of men will assemble in a certain designated place, climb into their ship, a ship
vastly different than that of Columbus's time. This ship will be a rocket shop, and its oc-
cupants will shoot off into the vast sea of space to find new worlds, new peoples, and
new frontiers.

They will be laughed at, they wil! be ridiculed, and the whole thing will be called
the greatest “folly on earth, but wil! #« be such? Time has proven that impossibilities
become realities, the automobile, the airplane, radio, telephone, telegraph, television,
and the smashing of the atom are defimete proof. All is possible to ome who believes,—and
I am a sound believer!

*

FROM THE ASSOCIATE EDITOR'S DESK

The mysteries of space have | ascinated most peaple on earth. One need not be
onomer to gaze in awe at th it which unfolds before the eyes as we gaze sky-
any clear night.

vastness of space is difhcul: to explain, even for astronomers. When distances
n of it is simpler for learned men to use the term ‘light years” than miles. The
f celestial bodies suspended in space like our own earth are unknown. The
we from millions on up. But they remain just that—guesses.

who make our home on a mere cinder of matter in the eyes of space, cannot be

sagh to think that intelligent life exists only here. Those who believe that there

for everything which happens, should agree that these millions of bodies in
serve more of a purpose than just twinkling brightly on a clear night.

Published quarterly by Albert K. Bender, Editor; Max Krengel, Associate Editor; Printed
by Reliable Press, Bridgeport, Conn. Subscription Price: four issues, to members, $1.00;
to non-members, $1.40 per year. Individual copies $.35. Exclusive publication of the IFSB,

P.O. Box 241, Bridgeport 2, Conn., U.S.A. Send all news and articles to this address.’

SPACE REVIEW

SCIENCE FICTION NEWS

Alan C, Riewman

Victor Root, Illinois Rep. of IFSB, has
some Science-Fiction mags for sale, or free
in exchange. He is selling them for a small
fee. Write to IFSB for address.

The DECEMBER, 1952, issue of FATE
magazine is a must to all IFSB members
und officers. It contains an article by Car-

Fuller, entitled, “Let’s Get Straight
About the Saucers.’ A complete detaihed
story of the incident of the scoutmaster
described in our January issue, is discussed
with a picture of the scoutmaster. SUB-
<CRIBE TO FATE MAGAZINE AND
KEEP UP TO DATE ON THI
SAUCERS. Write to 806 Dempster Stree

Evanston, ILlinots

New Pocket Books on Stands: Dell No
627, When © is Collide’ by Philip
Wylie and Edw Balmer. Pocket Book
No. 908, “New Tales of Space and Time’,

Raymond J. Healy.

Thanks to Ray Palmer for our lette
the December issue of “Other Woried
Clark Publishing Co., 806 Dempster &
Evanston, Illinois. Let's subscribe.

NEW BOOK BY VIKING PRESS
Across the Space Frontier”’, edited by
Cornelius Ryan, $3.95, Viking, New York

RANDOM HOUSE HAS DONE IT
AGAIN WITH: ‘By Space Ship to the
Moon’, written by Jack Coggins and
Fletcher Pratt, foreword by Willy Ley. $1.

SCIENCE FICTION NEWS-LETTER,
by our Council Member, “Bob’’ Tucker,
P.O. Box 702, Bloomington, Illinois.

THE UNITED STATES ROCKET SO-
CIETY, Box 29, Glen Ellyn, Illinois.

Hollywood is coming out two
good movies: “War of the Worl and
“The Conquest of Space”’.

SAUCER REVIEW, by Elliott Rock
more, u member of our Council. P.O. Box
148. Wall St. Station, New York 5, N.Y

Owners of tape recorders or wire re-
corders. Join T.R.I. (Tape-respondence
International. Send your voice to your cor-
respondents) 3488—22nd St., San Fran-
cisco 10, Calif.

BORDERLAND SCIENCES RE-
SEARCH ASSOCIATES located at 3524
Adams Ave., San Diego 16, California,
would like to have IFSB members join
their society.

Many new Science Fiction Mags are hit-
ting the newsstands and some are good
while others are the usual run. A few of
the better ones are: Tops in SF; Science
Fiction Quarterly and Fantastic.

Two good S-F books: ‘Robots Have No
Tails’ by Lewis Padgett and “Player Pi-
ano” by Kurt Vonnegut. Both humorous
line.

The officers of IFSB are planning on is-
suing a 12-page booklet sometime next
year with a complete record on all saucer
reports that they now have collected. This
booklet will not be a regular issue of
a Review”, but a separate issue and
will sell for 50c to everyone. Our Presi-
ient, Mr. Bender, will write the foreword
with comments throughout by officials of
IFSB. The bookiet will be entitled: IFSB
REPORTS ON THE SAUCERS. If inter-
ested, write!

We would like members and officers to
send in snapshots of themselves so that
when the time comes for us to print pic-
ures in Space Review, we will have the
shotos available.

MENTION ‘SPACE REVIEW” when
writing to any of above mentioned pub-

ations.

This page will be eliminated in future
i

sues, and will be replaced by articles o

saucers”

SPACE REVIEW

‘““MY THEORY’”’

by IFSB Members

, THEORY NO. 6—Submitted by BARBARA KNORR, Member from Connecticut

Everybody seems to believe that the “saucers”, whatever they are, come from this
Solar System. I do not believe any other planet but ours can support intelligent life. Per-
haps plant life, but not human.

I do believe that if our planet can su port life, why not other planets in other Solar
Systems. I do not believe that these ieole wish to destroy us because if they had they
could have done so long ago. Also, how do we know that these things we see are not
beings themselves.

THEORY NO. 7——Submitted by Representatrve LOUIE MASONICK, JR., of Minnesota

My theory is one most IFSB members seem to have. First, I believe they are from an-
other planet. All those stars must have something going around them. All those celestial
bodies must be up there for some reason, besides to look at. Then, also, they may even
be from our Solar System.

I do not think an official agency of our government should come out and say—'we
do not know what they are and whether or not they are a menace.’ The best way to reveal
the objects would be through clubs like the IFSB. I do not believe that they are a menace.
I think there is intelligent life on them and that they are just observing us.

THEORY NO. 8-—Submitted by Representative ALAN RIEVMAN of Connecticut

My theory om the origin of the fying saucers’ is that they are definitely real and
are from one of the planets of our Sola: System. I do not believe that they are from one of
the other Solar Systems. These “‘neighbors’’ probably thought that our planet could not have
intelligent life upon it, but with the test atomic explosion they may have changed their
minds

n sure that they are not from barth because if they were ours it would be impos-
sible «© seep it quiet and if they were trom a foreign government they wouldn't be flying
ove! uited States. They would risk being shot down and their secret revealed to us.

THEORY NO. 9—Submitted by Representat:ve VICTOR ROOT of Illinois

My theory is that the ‘‘flying saucers’ are manned ships controlled and operated by
intelligent creatures who are scouting our world. They will not try to make contact with
us for many reasons. One is that we are too warlike and emotional. Another is that we
have diseases which may harm or even kill them. Some day when we reach out and touch
the planets we may meet them. A rae of intelligent creatures other than ourselves, cer-
tainly does exist.

THEORY NO. 10—Submitted by Al AN STAZER, Member from California

I think that the “flying sauces - from the solar system of ALPHA or PROXIMA
CENTUARI. Most likely the 3rd or 4th planet. The planet is probably about 4000 miles
in diameter and two-thirds as big as the earth. Some other reasons are that Centauri is too
far distant for observation of such a small body as a planet. This star is of about the same
size and the same spectral, type-GO, as the Sun. Editor's Note: WOW!

All theories become the property of IFSB and cannot be returned.

SPACE REVIEW

HIGHLIGHTS ABOUT REPRESENTATIVES

DICK CAMPBELL, Rep. Indiana—Rep. Campbell has written us many interesting letters
and aided in making his home town of Franklin the only city in the world with the most
IFSB members. At present it totals over twenty. He was assisted by Mr. Louis Frahm, and
Mr. Jack Moore of that place.

a |
J. RONALD ALBERT, rep. Ontario, Canada—Will be appointed Representative of

CANADA AT LARGE. Doing a fine job. Would like more Canadians to join club.
ak ee

VIC TOR ROOT, Rep. IHinois—One of our mest valuable representatives. He has =
mu reparing a map of the United States showing the places where saucers have
be wgnted. He is quite a =. too; see his peem in this issue. Mr. Root presented the
IFS8 us saucer map. We are proud of it We are sorry to say that Mr. Root may

to California in the near future. It will be very hard to replace such an

= * .

ADDUS, Rep. Kentucky--Obtained two new members for IFSB. One of
Mrs. Glenn C. Fuller, saw a flying saucer. Her report will be in our next
e Review’. Mr. Broaddus 1s spreading the word about IFSB.
* * ®
DIA “CHANAN, Rep. Iowa—Obtained a new member, and has clippings she in-
tends ed in to IFSB.

GAIL SR AGUE, a Wisconsin—Gail a the cartoonist. She sent in a cartoon

» really made the International Staff roll off their chairs. She showed the parlor
» home with the front door open, a strange looking creature had walked in the door
caving maddy tracks on the fleor. Outside can be seen a saucer parked on the lawn. A
housewife approaches the creature amd this is what she says: “I don't care where you're
from. Look at my clean rug." She also sent us a fine poem that appears in this issue. Gail
obtained a new member for us also. She sure is showing fine interest
e * ~

ALLAN LEVINSKY, Rep. Maine——Claims that very few people are seeing saucers in
Maine. Is doing his best to get people interested in IFSB.

% * *

ROBERT R. RITTER, Rep. Tennessee-——Chalks up another member for IFSB.
* * *

LUIS LUHRING, Rep. Puerto Rico——Mr. Luhring has sent us numerous clippings from
Puerto Rico about saucers. He plans to get as many people as possible to join IFSB. He
says that the interest in saucers is as great in Puerto Rico as anyplace else.

* * *

S. L. DAW, Rep. Washington, D.C.—We are happy to have for our representative in
Washington, D.C., the first member of the clergy, Reverend Daw. Mr. Daw, as he prefers
to be called by club members, is doing great work for IFSB. We are anxiously awaiting
to see his actual photos of saucers, that he took himself

oe s .

RONALD KINNEAR, Rep. New York—Took upon himself to advertise in his own
state and had 50 post cards printed and plans mail them out, in his state.
eS een
u ire not getting any report from Sor of our Representatit es. It as absolutely
w) that we hear from you, so please do your best to get those monthly reports roll-

{

SPACE REVIEW

DIRECTORY OF R&PRESENTATIVES

The following are additional representatives since our last publication.

BRITISH REPRESENTATIVE—Edgar L. Plunkett, 71 Chedworth Rd., Horfield, Bristol!
7, England; Assistant Representative for Britain-—Denis Plunkett

PUERTO RICAN REPRESENTATIVE—Luis Luhring, Box 23, Punta Santiago
COLORADO—Verna M. Hampton, 4245 Alcott St., Denver

MAINE-—Allan Levinsky, 59 Atlantic St., Portland

MISSOURI-—Ralph Hetzel, 6 Scarsdale, St. Louwss 17

NEW JERSEY—August C. Roberts, 443 Ogden Ave., Jersey City

NORTH CAROLINA—David T. Benton, Box 430, E.C.C., Greenville
OHIOW—Robert © Schnelle, Sr., 714 McMaken Ave., Cincinnati

OREGON—.G. L McColly, 524 Jersey St., Suiverton

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA—Rev. § L. Daw, 5119--7th St., N.W., Washington
WEST VIRGINIA—Gray Barker, Bex 981, Clarksburg

fbove names will not be publeved again, Additional names in future issues

Anyone that wishes to correspons with other members will please send us permission
to print your name and address so thai others will know that you desire correspondence.
We do not publish lists of our members names and addresses without permission from
them.

LET’S LOOK AT THE MAGAZINES

READERS DIGEST FOR JULY 1+ -Two articles’ “Have We Visitors from Space,”

and ‘Flying Saucers—New in Mare Only.”
RUE MAGAZINE, SEPT 1952 The Flying Saucers and the Mysterious Little Men.”
OCT. 1952—"'We Flew Above Flying Saucers.”
1952—''What Radar Tells About Flying Saucers.’
MAGAZINE, OCT. 20, 1952—"'Moonbound,” Page 18.
ER'S, OCT. 18, 1952 Man on the Moon.”
xCT. 25, 1952—"‘More About Man on the Moon.”

Pi. MAGAZINE, NOV. 1952—''How Do Swucers Fly ?”’

SIR MAGAZINE, DEC. 1952—"'Flying Sasers and the Air Around Us.”

MR. MAGAZINE, JAN. 1953—''Is Washemgron Afraid of Flying Saucers?’

MAN TO MAN MAGAZINE, JAN 1953 — Flying Saucers Are Not New.”

THE MYSTERY OF OTHER WORLDS REVEALED—A Fawtett Book No. 166. Ex-
eileat. A four star edition—-one of the finest to date in the pulp line. Cost 75c. We
ad all saucer-minded fol} *t this magazine. It is ae once in a great while
the publisher puts out ne publication. Contains news of Space Travel;
Flywng Saucers; and Rocket pment.

These magazines are in the LIBRARY as part of our collection. We will send
written information to anyone i cy have questions on above magazines.

Coming in April “SPACE REVIE™ ‘SAUCERITIS” by John Armitage of England.
An article that will make you really THINK! A
A COMPLETE LISTING OF ALL OF OUR OFFICERS AND COUNCIL MEMBERS

SPACE REVIEW

TO ALL MEMBERS OF THE I.F.S.B.—

GREETINGS FROM ENGLAND
Capt. Edgar L. Plunkett, British Represertative
Are we on the verge of a breath-taking discovery? Yes, i believe we really are! To
quote Captain Eddie Rickenbacker, “Too many good men have seen Flying Saucers for
us to dismiss them lightly as hallucinations.”
The nineteenth and twentieth centuries have produced a number of astonishing dis-
coveries notably the dreaded atom bomb, and also has had to discard in many cases pre-
vusly held convictions such as that ‘‘matter is indestructible’’.
Even the average layman today, due to increased educational facilities, and access to
rature of all sade, has a very good idea that ‘fe in all its forms consists of “energy”,
ind that this energy somehow links back to some form of pulsating orbital structure like
unto the universe, but on an infinitesimally smaller scale. Therefore, it is—to me at least-—
quite believable that it ts possible that somewhere -something—someone—has solved the
ddle of this energy, etheric, electromagnetic, «all it what you will. Having progressed
ar, it follows that given elements capable of withstanding immense stresses and strains,
propulsion of what has become known as the ‘Flying Saucer’ becomes a possibility.
; known that between the Sun, Moon, and owe Earth, and presumably between other
r-planetary and possibly interstellar bodies there exists magnetic lines of force, thus
some form of aircraft or saucer has control of the means oF attraction and repulsion,
these lines of force which by the way never touch one another, would form the perfect
highway along which to travel at the speed of light, and probably very much faster. It
would also account for the capability of x oo so-catled “saucers” to accomplish right-angled
rns, :nasmuch that these known magnetic waves emanate in all directions. Therefore,
point of view of the average thinking man in the street, I say, ‘I believe the
flying saucer does exist, and that the coming years will vindicate such men as Captain
Mantell, Kenneth Arnold, and countless other promeers in this field.’’ [a conclusion, may
| say to all IFSB members at home and abroad, “carry on the.good work, and above all,
io not be disappointed, discouraged or deluded by the jeers and sneers of the ignorant
so-called majority.”

The best of everything for the New Year ahead '
Yours fraternally, E. L. PLUNKETT

MYSTERIOUS CRAFT OUT THERE
by Gail Sprague
Out of the dark, mysterious, depths of by Victor Root
space,
Came strange looking craft at a tren
dous pace Out there, beyond the clouds;
Their course was true, the third planet Where winds have not yet blown,

Out in space lies my destiny,

from the sun, Where man has not yet gone
veit orders: Don't return until your task lee
is done
Down they descended; some got out.
"Be back in 24 hours,” the commander
told the scout. Out there, among the stars

That's where I long to roam
Out in space lies my destiny

Time went fast, all returned. Where night is forever ruling,
Off went the craft, bearing all they'd Wh wolitude is soothing
learned he pie
; That's where I long to roam.
decision was reached, never again,
1 this small planet they'd ever land
Wars, corruption, prejudice and greed,
Made this the worst of all planets, al To
agreed Out t

Gis ver ship,

NO
ectly over Frankli

piled from a
Patr

ing,
thorities,

the objects no

The

re we

larger of the tl

to be that of
The two smal

ar other

Ow e they ex
‘ without

in a neat];
mately
estimat
sibility

as a sa

came
light-
At 5:11

at 4
the

m

one at

envelope th

ne

ts W

rH TING N

S ¢

1an Ken

and men

the ee of the three

SPACE REVIEW

SAUCER SIGHTINGS 8Y IFSB MEMBERS

Exclusive! From Franklin, inciema and Surrounding Towns

On the morning of he
n, Indiana appeas

r of men

I

aly 1952 i

skies to the southeast
e objects. Their flight
er. The following is com
man Jack W. Moore and
Ye epart tment on Monday morn
d by policemen, civilian a
After notifying all proper authorities of
t rwise. The report is as follows

in ¢t
st trange

al
d three was
numb

Poli e report
neth
952

of sound mind and
by C apt. I Sloa
R the Franklir a Polic
at 6:00 a.m. These of re
ibers of the United State
definite steps were taken by

urne Patrol
7
I

ce a

D._ ; 7
Rund of if

witness

re three objects, on«
ree seemed to cast
It seemed
ts cast off

1 color. TI

rger
, WwW

han the two smaller objects. The
ght. Its pattern of flight seemed
ack of the two smaller objects.
own, one being an orange hue
be in a dog fight all their
made turns of 90 degrees and
cing up and down as if
single sorties to the south
w again, joining the other
ed their height at.approxi-
1500 miles per hour to an
binoculars it was almost an impos-
hey appeared to be round and flat
hours and fifteen minutes. Dawn
m. At 5:03 a.m. it was bright day
color did not change in day
by the two smaller anes; the sa
t yrange, then the red
the west out of The
exactly 40 seconds.
y, Ind.; Columbus
North Vernon Police
Wayne, Ind.;

ulway
tistinct
Oo

a

ev a

3 ~ ry 4»
idis| s neg

ecuted barrel ré They
The objects mad
mediately into v
1 spins. We estimat
i from an
ha pair of
other than that
a period of fous
gone around 5:00
still visrble. The:
was joined |

e larger,

o!
»st

laying ha gi
ght, to retu
row of turns,
hile their spec
5 per hour
any exact shape
ey were observed
and all stars
three objects

as

I

wit an

ps
art
nw

estimated

ro

m he ad
were plight
naller

a time After

af ppeared
two smal
objects and

veri

dt sight
three
ere

‘
took

I
i

Poli

fe
ned

an d

Minne
] 1esota about
MPH and when it ascen
sable for about 45

*sOta

2:30 p ‘m

ae ril

heir

/ire

ed

Sec ond S

SPACE REVIEW

EXCERPTS FROM A SUMMARY OF A FIVE-YEAR

FLYING SAUCER INVESTIGATION
By George D. Fawcett, international Council, IFSB

i have just decided to stop investigation that I began a little over five years “g0 on
ic of the most fascinating mysteries of modern twmes, that being the well known “Flying
acer’ phenomena. Since the summer of 1947 when the first saucer scare broke out in
United States, I have spent much of my time, money and energy seeking a solution
iddie. While carrying on my private investigations I was able to interview several
ymers, scientists, pilots and guided missile experts, who had fg these saucers
had been investigating or studying these strange objects. In addition to these
have talked to many eye-witnesses whe had sighted these objects throughout

States and have mailed questionnaires out to many others.

kept bulletins and scrapbooks on the saucers for the past five years, and while

i | wrote a six-page paniet ewtitled “The Flying Saucer Phenomena”

teachers, and classmates. | have lectured to several groups in Lynchburg.

interested im this phemomena from the very first, my sighting of an

ike globe which einai % four minutes over the Lynchburg College ad-

n : building in Lynchburg, Virgemia, om the morning of July 6, 1951, has in-

rease y interest threefold simce then. That is ome of my reasons for moppine my inves-

tigation It's really too big a job for one person te handle. We must realize that we are

vith a phenomena that is as fantasti as it is fascinating. Many of the reports that
able to gather in my collection tend to back this statement.

Some recent thoughts about the “flywag saucers” are that perhaps there will be some
landings soon. This doesn’t seem too fas ed om that these flying saucers are still being
seen everywhere, for longer periods of and in groups instead of alone, as well as
nore reports of huge saucer or rocket sts Then, too, they seem to come and go at will,
rerhaps being stationed as satellites thems«

el that our government must ke something about these saucers because in my
it this very moment the United Sestes Gevernment is carrying on an educational
regarding interplan avel of our aantry. Perhaps space ships from other
ts are already here! At amy rate, whether (ley are trying to prevent religious con-
versy or panic or for any othe ves which they might have, our government is still

ing, denying, suppressing n plating *eperts at intervals for some reason.
gardless, the future will tell! In closing, I'd like to use a favorite phrase of Charlie
Lynchburg College student who said, “things are really looking up.” I wonder
hings aren't looking DOWN, too; Sooner or later we're bound to find out, and

| I can say is, ‘‘the sooner, the better.”

EDITOR'S NOTE: Mr. Faweett’s discussions and opinions will be found in future

yf Space Review.

PTENTION MEMBERS AND OFFIC ; | interested in receiv-
emblem to wear on y« it lapel with our b | IFSB” engraved on a
background, we would be interested i g © »rder these emblems

we get enough people showing in t yu ipproximately $1.00

Pl t us know as soon as {

SPACE REVIEW

WE WANT YOU TO MEET

EDGAR L, PLUNKETT, BRITISH BEPRESENTATIVE—Born at Bristol, Glos.,
England, on December 26, 1903. Covered sme parts of the world as a radio operator at
sea from 1922 to 1936, including the U 8.A., notably New York, Boston, Baltimore,
Norfolk, Newport News, Tampa, Mobile. amd many other ports. Has many interesting
memories of the prohibition days, the gangater era, Jack mpsey, Babe Ruth, Lou
Gehrig and other notable highlights. Has wedked for many years for Anglo-American
friendship and still corresponds with friensls hewt in U.S.A. Was called to service in 1939.
Was rescued from Dunkirk Beaches by the Premeh Destroyer L’Incomprise on June 1, 1940.
Went to Middle East in 1941, and served Gietegph three Western Desert Campaigns with
the British 8th Army. After fall of Tumis ‘i commissioned in Palestine and was then
posted in Egypt. Returned to England at tie ed of the war after four and a half years
service overseas as a Captain. Now emplewed thy his original firm as a clerk.

He has a wife and three children, the: wee are Denis 21, now with the RAF, Diana
18, and Michael 14. Hobbies are weiting eed reading and other journalistic yearnings
including poetry, plus an unabated desire a eravel. Since the formation of Civil Defense
a year or so ago, he has become a qualified wstructor and lectures three evenings weekly
to industrial personnel.

Mr. Plunkett has shown great intese in IFSB activities and will without a doubt
prove to be our most valuable foreign repewsentative
Associate Eprror
(Next Issue-April 1, 1953)

—— RS SSS ———— as

POST OFFICE BOX 241
BRIDGEPORT 2, CONN.
U.S.A.

Return Postege Guaranteed

To

Mr. Sovert D, Wolf
19 N. forsyth St.
Franklin, Indiana
101553

oe STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to gag asibse agreed
File No. » Grosvenor Square

A

\
att - AIR COURIER

February 17, 1953
To: Director, FBI

From: Legal Attache

aa London, England

Subject: "FLYING SAUCERS"

“aa Major E. P. Walkers, Provo Marshall at the U. S. Air Force
Base at Mildenhall, England, telephonically contacted writer on
February 1), 1953, regarding the new or revived interest in
"flying saucers." He stated he did not have any new information
to report but did know of an incident that took place several
years ago and which the Bureau may desire to check.

This incident, according to Major Walkers, concerns an article
or story on "flying saucers" which appeared in a small newspaper
rith limited circulation in the Township of Jeffersonville, Delaware
Township, Sullivan County, New York. He was unable to recall the
name of the newspaper but was certain it is the only one published
in that area. The story appeared in one of the early 191;7 issues or
in one of the issues during the last three months of 19)\6. It was ) Us
written by a member of the U. S.Armed Forces and of significance is i
the fact that subsequent issues failed to follow it up by carrying
additional stories on "flying saucers." Also significant is the
fact that it appeared in a small and practically unknown newspaper.

Major Walkers states he is merely reporting this for what it
may be worth and is being forwarded to the Bureau for any action con-
sidered appropriate.

- WUC -

iit .U idsl ) Al
[4

NOILOSS NCSIVE

62-83894- Fé)

RECORDED “Ha tes

To:

From:

+ da ek}
EX!

3U

March 6, 1953

Director of Spectal Investigations
The Inspector General

Department of the Air Force

The Pentagon

Washington 25, De Ce

John Edgar Hoover, Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation

Subject: FLYING SAUCERS

The following information has been received by

this Bureau from tts representative in London, England, con-
cerning the captioned matter:

Hol

EHM: em

%
WY ]

Major E. Pe Walkers, Provost Marshal,
U. Se Atr Force Base, Mildenhall, England,
telephonically contacted tie writer on February 14,
1953, regarding the new or revived interest in
"flying saucers.” He stated he did not have any
new information to report but he knew of an
tneddent that took place several years ago which
this Bureau might desire to check.

This incident, aceording to Major Walkera,
concerns an article or story on "flying saucers”
whieh appeared in a small newspaper with limited
ctreulation located at Jeffersonville, Delaware
Township, Sullivan County, New York. He was
unable to recall the name of the newspaper but
was certain tt is the only one published in that
area. fhe story appeared $n oné of the early 1947
tssues or tn one of the tasues during the last three
months of 1946. It was written by a member of the
U. S. Armed Forces and. of gignificance te the fact
that subsequent issues failed to follow tt up by

> AAILED

= 1062
COMM + FB

2¢ i953

Gehe'ts gg any

FINLSOL 30 4d390'S |

Ia

HOOY VM 9AIg7 Ay

carrytng additional stories on "flying saucers.”
Also significant ts the fact that tt appeared in
@ small and practteally unknown newspaper.

Major Walkers states he ts merely reporting
this for what it may be worth.

The above data ts being furnished to you for
your information and any action you destre to take in connection
therewith, inasmuch as this Bureau is not conducting any tn-
vestigations relating to the captioned matter.

Office Mempgendign ° UNITED eo GOVERNMENT

Ae He Belmonth © patE: March 10, 1953

: Le He Martin

FLYING SAUCERS
JOHN BAILEY, INFORMANT

JohnNgailey called from Bowie, Maryland, at
9:05 P.Mey 3/9/5R, to advise that he had just seen a
flying saucer nea® that city. He was vague as to
details and nonresponsive as to where he was calling
from and as to his residence. When asked where he
planned to stay tonight, at least, in order that
Air Force might interview him tf deemed advisable,
Bailey said the writer wanted to know too much and
disconnected. Since no specific information was furnished
and since the call may have been a prank, the Air Force
was not advised. Since no identifying information was
obtained, no attempt was made to check Bureau records.

Recommendation:

File.

LEM: dmd\ }
V

AN

 Mareh 22, 1953

Director of Special Investigations
The Inspector General

Department of the Air Force

The Pentagon

Promt John Edgar Hoover, Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation

Subject: FLYING SAUCERS

At 9:05 p.me on March 9, 1953, an individual giving his
name as John Bailey telephonically contacted this Bureau and advised
he had just seen a flying saucer near Bowie, Maryland. Mr. Bailey
was vague as to any details in this matter and would not furnish any
information concerning his residence or the place from which he was
making his telephone call. Wo additional pertinent information in
this matter was furnished by Mr. Bailey.

The above is being furnished to you for your information and
assistance in the captioned matter. No investigation is being conducted
by this Bureau concerning this matter.

Tolson —_.
Ladd. ma
Nichols — ' ‘y by a
Belmont eh
Clegg —__

Glavin - . 40
Harbo ____ | AR | 3 i: 53
Rosen e

Tdcy 2 4

Laughlin el

Mobo =

Winterrowd

Tele. Rm. —_—

Holloman____.

Gandy. 5 ’
a AS aT ak,

TRANSLATION FROM SPANISH

Valparaiso, March h, 1953

Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation
Washington
United States, North America

Subject: Individual who may possibly be connected with
/ flying saucers. _

Dear Sir:

In writing to you who directs the influential Office of
Investigation which has international connections, I would like to
state the following:

1°-a) I had the opportunity to read in a "Chilean" police magazine, in
the section entitled, "Perfect Escapes," the escape of Dr. LINKE

(42 years old, widower, who some\time in 1950, in London, was arrested
on the 8th floor of the Building’ of Departments (7). The reason for
his detention was his possible collaboration with VLADIMIR VLASAV in
"divulging to foreign governnents English aviation secrets". )

In his attempt to get away, which occurred between | and 5
in the morning, a strange thing happened, “when the police came near
the 8th floor, the whole building became dark, the elevators stopped
and the telephones and loudspeakers became silent. When the police
arrived on the 8th floor with their flash lights, they immediately
went off. (Nevertheless, he was arrested at 6 A.M.).

b) Dr. LINKE escaped from the Kent Prison (a few days after
he was imprisoned) and according to statements of the author of the
article, which should be accurate, he did it in the following manner:
Between 12 midnight and 2 A.M., in rainy weather, Dr. JULIUS LINKE
disappeared under the following circumstances: the electricity, elevators,
telephones, and flash lights of the guards would not function.

h/
TRANSLATED BY:

\\ MARY APOSTOL:bad La L-

\ March 12, 1953

2 WAR 26) 1958

According to the article, among other statements of the
guards, was the fact that between midnight and 2 o'clock rain fell
in torrents and for a few moments there was complete darkness because
the lights went off. A guard tried to ring the alarm which would set
off the siren, and it did not work; he yelled to another guard but did
not get an answer, and his voice sounded very "distant"; although he
tried to warn his chiefs personally, he could not run or even walk
fast (he had to walk slowly).

2°),—-A little before the fall of Berlin, "the motors of autos and
trucks stopped unexpectedly," without any apparent explanation; after
one hour they succeeded in starting them again. During this occasion
it was commented that "something rare occurred in the atmosphere."

3° = About three months ago I read in a local newspger about the "flying
saucers," with the reservation that perhaps they would be speculating
about the flying saucers; however, it is undeniable that they were
telling the truth. It stated that, according to the article from a

news agency, an officer and his associate who were flying a plane saw

a "flying saucer." They followed it, but it, as in previous cases,
whirled about and could not be reached. However, the flying saucer flew
very high and then it began a rapid descent; it stopped a few seconds

on the officer's airplane, paralizing the motors of the airplane,
(according to statements of the aviators). later the disk flew very
high and was lot from view, and the airplane motors began working.

Any inference from the above statements — according to my
way of thinking, -- that these facts may appear to be imaginary, is
dispelled by the statements of various witnesses on each occasion, and
therefore they are "scientific" facts.

If on two occasions paralization of electricity occurred, as
well as what we may call paralization of vital forces (in the case of
the guards), and in said cases "the interference of one person,"

Dr. LINKE, is inferred, why could not Dr. LINKE also be connected with
the other two cases (2 and 3)?

It may be that all this is not in any way related and that the
flying saucers are nothing more than what has been given as a scientific
explanation, but the "strange force," about which our ancestors have not
spoken to us in history, we cannot deny.

I submit for your full consideration all I have said, my
only motive being "human interest for human affairs" and my desire for
the progress of humanity, for a good future full of dignity and
cosmic evolution.

Without further particulars, I remain
Sincerely yours,
S/ FRANCISCO TRONCOSO SILVA

Casilla 1857. Valparaiso
Chile, South America

P. S. Please acknowledge receipt of this letter.

motivo que
so de la

March 23, 1953

aeGORDED wy Z
INDEXED. 7 ~~ (7-3 i

Urs Frangtaan Wronctsehes iva
Castilla 1857 ~ M,
Valparatso, Chile

Dear Mrs roncoso's:

I want to take this opportunity to thank
you for your letter of March 4, 19536

The interest which prompted you to make
your observations avatiable to me ts sincerely ap-
preciated. Since your communtcation may be of in=
terest to another governmental agency, I am taking
the liberty of forwarding a copy of it to The Hon-
orable, The Secretary of the Atr Force, The Penta~
gon, Washington 25, Ds. Ce

Sincerely yours,

John Edgar Hoover
Director

cc-Foreign Liaison Desk, with copy of incoming.
copy by form, Premera of the Air Force.

BLT: blt »

Us ane
el

Miss Gandy —

fy C) Dp
ZB APR %

'SSTARDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum ¢ UNITED STA GOVERNMENT

TO : DIREOTOR, FBI pate; 4/28/53

Me SAC, SAN
SUBJECT: JNIDEN Tr F
i: 30

mce Officer, Ramey Air Force “Base, Puerto Rico.
The substence of this report is as follows:

Five persons observed an unidentified flying object at 11:30
Mon 4/8/53 at Fort Buchanan, Puerto Rico. Statements were
taken from all of the witnesses, among whom were three Captains
and a Se ant of the U. S. Army, as well as a civilian. ‘They
described the object as a bright star or a bright ball of fire
at a great height, and it was moving rapidly et the time it was
observed.

All of the witnesses observed one RB 36 aircraft which had been
flying in the area at the time of the sighting of this unidenti-
fied object. The Wing Intelligence Officer reported that there
were two RB 36 aircraft in the area at this time. ‘These aircraft
were reported to be flying at 12,000 end 000 feet respectively.
None of the persons: from whom statements were teken were able to
accurately describe the object, other than by the statements set
forth above.

This matter is being reported to the Bureau for information:
purposes.

RECORDED-i2

YED- 2

rec

ank yor or ‘
jour letter avatla

Tnasmuch as information contai ned
letter comes withir h tsdiction of
of the Air Force, u urnished a copy of
letter to that Department for appropriate attention,

Sincerely yours,

are negative: re Mrs. Robert Davissone

sguusar ol dae Sy
ech Bod ae

sinh AAIVIANG

May Ls, 1953

Director of Special Investigations
The Inspector General
Department of the Air Force
The Pentagon
ashington 25, Ds CO.

From: John Edgar Hoover, Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation

<S
Subject; — FLYING SAUCERS

There is attached for your information and assistence
in this matter a copy of a self-explanatory letter dated May 9, 1953,
received by this Bureau from Mrs. Robert H. Davisson, 26 Olcott Street,
Watertown, Massachusetts, Mrs. Davisson's letter has been acknowledged
by this Buresu and she has been informed that a copy of her letter
has been referred to the Department of the Air Force for appropriate
attention.

Attachment

Boston (Under Separate Cover) (Attachment) (FOR INFO)

Miss Gandy —

jc Wd €2 21 Wp

J0SAr 40° 'd30. on

3A2994

26 Bleotf Sly
Taey 9, [45 3

1]
|}

han Sui :- CM24. 7 Hn)
Maunadag Heresy aay PM
Aft Acturt CA. 7) ad
plead Ye porkem teh cling 2b
‘oe Ato. x Fepyundk *
v yo ac a aaa uke
dune “ ta frum - ae Sp oy

PAU OH - me aque Cree aA ete
acon ct Liyt

fwte mM ai plare , &
mn cyto Aotind, }

ean. atu + a sth nang cel
aw pratt - prrgavtally oe ae =

p- gorh w

an «pe ade
A wyte mt elm

athe sete lint- wre

in ge: cay Bos

+ nM

ve REOOBDED AB. cc0 57
INDEXED “99

MOOS |

hn A Bnrived Lim

he hw

July 9, 1953

gg (adNOON >; <2 _ 49 4 Uf af 327

NDEKED

tw: 3. Mo od fill

President
grand Hotel
Mackinac Island, Michigen

Dear Ur, Weod fill:

Your letter of June 30, 1953, has been
received in Mr. Hoover's absence from the city, and
I am taking the liberty of acknowledging its receipt.

Your communication will be brought to his
attention promptly following his return to Washington.

Sineerely yours,

Helen W. Gandy
ecretary

ce-Detroit, with cop of litttomttg.

cc-Cincinnati, with copyrop incoming.

ATTENTION SAC: You are instructed to thoroughly
check your files in an effort to determine whethéy =
or not the Mr. Stevenson referred to by correspotiens
has been interviewed by an Agent of yourioffice. mYou
should also furnish the Bureau any information Dhichn
might assist in clarifying the story set forth by) w
Woodfill. Sulet results no later than July POP I53—,
under caption "Mr. W. S. Wood fill, President, Grand =
Hotel, pie a de Island, a, padi: Research (Crime Fl cy) sph 5
Records). By / x i Bs BATE Mp
follow-up nade for July 1, 10s yl 1, Bago inl!
NOTE: Although inquiries regarding such phehomefia << ™® |)
are being. handled by the Air Force at this presemt =OV\ i
time, it ts believed desirable to check the sourdend !
of this rumor and following receipt of reply Pro .:;
Cincinnati, refer correspondent 'S: inquiry tovthe “Atr2Force.
In 1939 and again in 1940. Woodfill invited the Dtrecwor
to attend the Michigan Hotel Convention, and-both initations
were declined. An informant reported that ipulg5 9

/ gambling on Mackinac Island was,reserved for the Grand
(Stele | COMM — FEI shee

JUL 101953

HPL: b1t ne : / ©
ease ¥ MAILED 27 | ! y's
pate we em

rad Hote

WORLD’S LARGEST SUMMER HOTEL

W.S.Wooprite President

Omse

much more

714 BBP

eds & Mw

sgusnit.ad 1d3u's 0
‘nw 4 °
a

yoLgguld ~ ySAIT9SY

ee vse ss ol

4) 1430'S

oh % Ws. sm] mM

I can only believe that the account is a lot of nonsense, insofar as the FeBele
telling the farmer that the goverrment has captured several "flying saucers",

and that they are from Mars, and that a Martian is being held captive in Californias
It would be apparent to me that if the government did have such knowledge, they
would not confide such information to the farmer, -- and moreover that it is too
utterly fantastic to credit with recognition as true. The farmer no doubt saw

a "flying saucer", a light reflection or other light phenomenon such as the govern—
ment has said all such things really are, and not a space ship from Mars or anyother
place in outer space.

I am writing to hopefully secure your advice, insofar as you can properly advise
me publicly as a citizen, of what the truth is in this storye I should like to
set my relative there straight. And I am curious personally to know what the real
story is about this farmer ~ Mr. Stevenson of the Gircleville, Ohio areas

Respectfully yours,

{
Preside:

COMMUNICATIONS SecTio}

JUL §

TELETYPE

FBI“ATLANTA 1-8-5353 11-0-2 AM « JB

\

DIRECTOR, FBI URGENT Mee 1d ,

FLYING SAUCERS, MR, TOM MCRAE, - ATLANTA CONSTITUTION- REPO TER,
COMPLAINANT, THREE FORTYFIVE AM THIS DATE MCRAE TELEPHONICALLY FURNISHED
FOLLOWING -FANTASTIC TALE - ASSURING THAT NEITHER HE NOR ANY MEMBER

OF -§consTITUTION- STAFF HAD BEEN DRINKING BUT HAD WITNESSED THIS
STORY, MCRAE STATED EDWARD E. WATERS, ONE EIGHT FIVE FIVE PEACHTREE
RD, NE, TELE ELGIN NINE FIVE SIX TWO, CALLED ON HIM AT NEWSPAPER OFFICE
STATING HE ANDTWO OTHER COMPANIONS WHILE TRAVELING IN CAR ON BANK-
| HEAD HIGHWAY ABOUT MABLETON, GA. ENCOUNTERED THREE SMALL ANIMALS WHICH
| THEY BELIEVED HAD LANDED FROM SOME PLACE IN FLYING SAUCER. WATERS
INFORMED MCRAE THAT AS THEY APPROACHED THE THREE OBJECTS SSTARTING
MAKING THEIR WAY BACK TO WHAT HE BELIEVED A FLYING SAUCER, THAT TWO
fh OF THE ANIMALS ESCAPED IN SAUCER BUT THIRD WAS KILLED WHEN HIT BY THEIR
| AUTOMOBILE, WATERS DISPLAYED OBJECT OR ANIMAL TO MCRAE AT NEWSPAPER
OFFICE, MCRAE STATED ANIMAL DID NOT RESEMBLE ANYTHING HE HAD EVER
| SEEN BEFORE BUT LOOKED AS IF IT BELONGED TO MONKEY FAMILY. ANIMAL
| MEASURED AND FOUND TO BE APPROXIMATELY TWENTYONE INCHES LONG, HAD
RATHER POINTED HEAD, LARGE EARS AND SKIN WAS PINKISH. DUE TO

| EARLY MORNING HOUR MCRAF ETO LO ENTIS MINE
FEC ae LOCATE sch 5 a EXAMI
HI

ANIMAL BUT DID HAVE ONE OF LEADING VETERINARIANS’ ‘ CITY EXAMINE IT.
EX JUL | ete
ay -103 12 WS |Les }

on

ee

=
=
m
cae 2
( 3 a
eS. Ss

SE th abe g84 336 9
YOLIAE- sdanalgsox
eg, Hd 9% & “yw

oa eee
MCRAE STATES VETERINARIAN WOULD NOT COMMIT HIMSELF BUT VET POINTED
OUT HAD NEVER SEEN ANIMAL IN MONKEY FAMILY WITHOUT HAIR AS THIS ONE
NOR HAD EVER NOTED A DEAD ANIMAL THAT DID NOT TURN PALE AT DEATH.
| VETERINARIAN STATED ANIMAL HAD HAD A TAIL BUT SAME WAS MISSING AND WHEN
| QUESTIONING WATERS ABOUT SAME WATERS SEEMED SOMEWHAT SURPRISED BUT STATH
IT WAS POSSIBLY CUT OFF IN ACCIDENT. MCRAE ADVISED WHERE WAS BLOOD
AROUND MOUTH OF ANIMAL GAUSED BY ACCIDENT WHICH RESEMBLED HUMAN BLOOD
| MCRAE FIRST THOUVHT WATERS POSSIBLY TRYING TO PULL PUBLICITY GAG DUE

| S
| TO RECENT NEWSPAPER STORIES BUT BELIEVED HAD THIS BEEN HIS MOTIVE WATER

| WOULD HAVE TIMED HIS VISIT BETTER AS THEY WERE ABLE TO PRINT ANYTHING

} AFTER MIDNIGHT. MCRAE STATED NEWSPAPER WOULD POSSIBLY RUN STORY ON
ABOVE FACTS TODAY, ATLANTA INDICES NEGATIVE ON WATERS. ABOVE
FURNISHED IN VIEW OF POSSIBLE PUBLICITY THIS DATE. NO INVESTIGATION

|
\

BEING CONDUCTED THIS OFFICE UCAB. MATTER REFERRED TO OSI OFFICE NINE

| AM EST TODAY.
CARSON

END AND ACK

LINE X SIX SHUD LAST THREE WORDS BE WHXX THERE WAS BLOOD

YES THANKS ALSO LINE 10 SHUD IT BE THEY WERE UNABLE

YES: (OK-TU

12-11 PM OK FBI WA RD

V

A

NSTITUTION= REPORTER,

Sf baulh Gar

COMPLAINANT, H FORTYFIVE AD

FOLLOWING -FANTASTIC TALE - ASSURING THAT NEITHER HE NOR ANY MEME

tad OS

OF -BeonstrtuTion- 7 HAD BEEN Dk {ING BUT HAD WITNI

STATED EDWARD E. WATERS, ONE EIGHT FIVE

fom

NE FIVE SIX TWO
ATING HE ANDTWO OTHER COMPANIONS WHILE TRAVELING IN CAR
HEAD HIGHWAY ABOUT MABLET

A:
X
3

-Y BELIEVED HAD LANDED FROM So!

MCRAE THAT AS THEY

Loe
Bot

ACK TO WHAT }
ANIMALS ESCAPED IN SAUCER BUT
AUTOMOBILE, WATERS DISPLAYED OBJECT

OFFICE, MCRAE STATED ANIMAL DID NO’

Ost Adler 2d

BUT LOOKED AS IF IT BELONGED ANIMAL

AND FOUND TO BE APPRO fe TWENTYONE INCHES LONG, HAD

MINE

RIANS THIS CITY EXAMINE iT.

VETERINARIAN WOULD NOT COMMIT HIMSELF BUT VET POINTED
OUT HAD NEVER SEEN ANIMAL IN MONKEY FAMILY WITHOUT HAIR AS THIS ONE
NOR HAD EVER NOTED A DEAD ANIMAL THAT DID NOT TURN PALE AT DEATH.
VETERINARIAN STATED ANIMAL HAD HAD A TAIL BUT SAME

QUESTIONING WATERS ABOUT SAME WATERS SEEMED SOMEWHAT SURPRISED BUT STATH
ae

|
IT WAS POSSIBLY CUT OFF IN ACCIDENT, MCRAE ADVISED @HERE WAS BLOOD

AROUND MOUTH OF ANIMAL CAUSED BY ACCIDENT WHICH RESEMBLED HUMAN BLOOD
MCRAE FIRST THOUVHT WATERS POSSIBLY TRYING TO PULL PUBLICITY GAG DUE
TO RECENT NEWSPAP. STORIES BUT BELIEVED HAD THIS BEEN HIS MOTIVE WATER
WOULD HAVE TIMED HIS VISIT BETTER AS THEY WERE\'ABLE TO PRINT ANYTHING
JAF TER MIDNIGHT, MCRAE STATED NEWSPAPER WOULD POSSIBLY RUN STORY ON
ABOVE FACTS TODAY, ATLANTA INDICES NEGATIVE ON WATERS, ABOVE

ED IN VIEW OF POSSIBLE PUBLICITY THIS DATE. NO INVESTIGATION
BEING CONDUCTED THIS OFFICE UCAB. MATTER REFERRED TO OSI OFFICE
AM EST TODAY.

CARSON

END AND ACK
LINE X SIX SHUD LAST THREE WORDS BE WHXX THERE WAS BLOOD
YES THANKS ALSO LINE 10 SHUD IT BE E RE UNABLE
YES OK TU
12-11 PM OK FBI WA RD

The
Little

Wasn’t

Edward Watters
and two friends
said they saw
a fl; ak

cer and flew off
in a blaze of.
light. Mr. Wat-

anatomy pro-

fessor called it
a skinned
monkey,

Washington Daily News 1/9/53

ENCLOSURE

«SAUCER)

ATLANTA+=TWO BARBERS AND A BUTCHER PRODUCED A 21-IWCH LONG. ®CREATURE®
TODAY TO BACK UP THEIR TALE THAT THEY HAD SEEN A FLYING SAUCER AND THRE
ELUSIVE LITTLE MEN AFTER CONSUMING ONE BEER APIECE, |

AN ANATOMY PROFESSOR SAID, HOWEVER, THAT THE CORPSE THE EARTH MEN
SUSPECTED WAS FROM OUTER SPACE APPEARED TO BE A MONKEY.

THE MEN WERE CONVINCED IT WAS FROM OUT OF THIS WORLD, THEY SAID
THEY RAN INTO IT WITH THEIR AUTOMOBILE WHILE DRIVING ON A HIGHWAY NEAR
HERE LAST NIGHT,

“RIGHT THERE IN THE MIDDLE OF THE HIGHWAY WAS THIS THING, GLOWING
RED ALL OVER,” SAID EDWARD WATTERS, 25-YEAR*OLD BARBER. IT LOOKED
LIKE A FLYING SAUCER PICTURE HE HAD SEEN IN A SCIENCE MAGAZINE, HE SAID,

“THREE LITTLE MEN WERE RUNNING FOR IT," WATTERS CONTINUED, "THEY
ALL JUMPED, TWO OF THEM MADE IT. I HIT THE OTHER ONE."

WATTERS SAID THE MACHINE SOON ROSE INTO THE AIR AND ZOOMED AWAY,

HE SAID IT WAS NOT MORE THAN WAIST HIGH AND ABOUT HALF AS WIDE AS
THE ROAD, 1

WATTERS* COMPANIONS, ARNOLD PAYNE, A yore AND THOMAS WILSON, A
N

BARBER, TOLD THE SAME STORY, WATTERS SAID THE CIDENT OCCURRED ABOUT
MIDNIGHT AFTER THEY HAD CONSUMED ONE BEER APIECE,

DR. W. As MICKLE, ANATOMY PROFESSOR AT EMROY UNIVERSITY, EXAMINED
THE ANIMAL, WHICH WAD BECOME A VICTIM OF AN AUTOMOBILE ACCEDENT.
MICKLE SAID IT LOOKED LIKE A MEMBER OF THE *RHESUS MONKEY) FAMILY,*
ALTHOUGH IT MAD NO HAIR,

ue "IF ccm FROM OUTER SPACE, THEY HAVEN'T INVENTED ANYTHING
EWS »” 5 *
\ WATTERS DECIDED ‘TO FREEZE THE THING WITH DRY ICE AND PUT IT,

ON DISPLAY, : ; (
1/8=-N633P pee We Serre

2
RECORDED. (4-32 ‘4

JNDEXED-124

EX-103

Nichols
Belmont
Clegg.
Glavin
Harbo ——
Rosea

Tracy

Geary ——
Mohe
Fincerrowd
Tele. Room
Holloman —
Sizoo____
Miss Gandy —

July 10, 1953

irector of Special Investigea
The Inspector General
epartment of the Air Force
Pentagon
ashington 25, D. C.

John Edger Hoover, Director
ederal Bureau of Investigeti

e following informe
Atlante Tield offi u ‘
July 8, 1953, by Mr, Tom“teRae, "Atlanta Constitution”

reporter. Mr. UcRae stated Ur. sdward eters, 18
Peach Tree Rood, Northeast, Atlant + &@ ia, telep
number Elgin 9562, contceted him et the office of th
"Atlanta Constitution” and advised as follows:

According to Waters, he and two other c
while travelling in on Gu tomobile o
the vicinity of Mableton, Georgia,
animals which they believed had landed from a fly
iters advised as he and his companion approach
oninals sterted moking.their way back to wh
to be a flying saucer. According to er
Gninals escaped in the flying saucer but the third was
killed when hit by the automobile in which Waters and his
companions were riding.

ording te MeRee, tote displayed the animel
killed to him at the tlanta Constitution"
WoRaGe stot the animcl did not resenble
g he hed ever seen before but t&pbapket as though
it belonged to the monkey family.'' Aceordtng to e, the
onimG@l was approrimotely 21 inches long, hed or r pointed
head, large ears and pinkish swine *NeRGe ‘stdted because of
the early morning hour he was unable to loccte @ scientist
to eramine Gnincl, but he didchave on@ bY the leading
veterinarians of Atlanta, G porgta, ezanine its
NM — FBI |
EHM:d jb
iss sf L4 01953.
MAILED 27

f

ES Wd%2 Sg} up

SJILSAL 30 -Ldga sca

UcRee advised the veterinarian would not
comntt himself but the veterinerian pointed out he had
never seen Gn animal in the monkey family without hair
nor had he ever seen a dead Gniual that did not turn
pale ct death. According to UcRGe, the veterinerian
stated the animal's toatl wos missing and that when he
had questioned Foatere Gbhout the missing teil Yoters had
seemed somewhat surprised and indicated it had possibly
been cut of f in the Gecident. McRGe stated there was
blood Ground the mouth of the animcl, which resembled
human blood.

At the tine McRee furnished the above informa-
tion to the Atlante Office of this Bureau, he stcted
neither he nor any menber of the "Atlanta Constitution"
newspaper staff had been drinking but hod witnessed the
above. magsser! stated he first thought Waters. had tried
to pull @ publicity gag in this matters howeber, it wos
McRGe 's poautan if. this had been Faters! motive, VYaters
would have timed his visit to the newspaper office better
es the newspaper wos unable to print Gnything on the ree
after midnight. MeRGe informed the Atlanta Office of thi
Bureau the “Atlanta Constitution” newspaper would paubig
run c story concerning the information set forth above.

It ts noved your office was telephonically con=
teeted on the morning of July 9, 1953, by @ Licison rep-
resentative of this Bureau concerning the Gbove matter,
The above is furnished for your information and no inves
gation tia being conducted in this motter by this Burecu,

July 24, 1953

Mr. W. S. Woodfill
President

Grand Hotel

Mackinac Island, Michigan

Dear Mr, Wood fill: & P= FOL FY “335

eARDL sy *
RECORLEY your letter of June 30, 1953, was brought
to my attention upon my return to the city, and I
want to thank you for making this information available
to me.

I wish to advise that the situation which
you discuss in your letter does not pertain to any
matter within the tnvestigative jurisdiction of the
FBI. Obviously, therefore, no representative of this
Bureau conducted the interview with Mr. Stevenson which
you describe relative to "flying saucers.”

Sincerely yours,

J. Edgar Hoover

PARED 11
John Edgar Hoover
JUL 28 1953 Director

COM £8

ec = Cincinnati
Reurlet July 15, 1953.

NOTE: Mr. Woodfill's letter of June 30,1 SB, stated that

a farmer named Stevenson of Circleville, Ohio, rad re portedly
seen a flying saucer und had been subsequentd y Sinteru iewed

on the matter by representative of the PBI Surv Wood fill
desired to iknow if this were true. fon)

Bulet of) July.9, 1953, to him-was'an "in-ghsence" reply,
containing.a note. fonkSaC, Cincinnati to determine the basis
of the rumor/SCincinnati letter of July 15, £952, indicates

that Stevenson was ‘interviewed on July:l4, J9p8; at that time
Stevenson indicated that he had been inter®iewed on the
subject by one Jatk.M, Grant of Columius, Ohio, who made the
statement that he (Grant) had once been "checked" by the FBI.
at a Cincinnati files reflect no prior interview with the farmer,
Bellows — who is Bruc¢g evenson, Rural Route 2, Circleville, Ohio.

ULL Gap & : ' yf) fi

)

4 P
STANDARD Fons NO. 64 te eg

4

Office MerBrandum UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO DIRECTOR, FBI DATE: July 15, 1953
FROM : SAC, CINCINNATI (105

suByEct: MR. W.-9¢TOODFILL, President
Grand Hotel
Mackinac Island, Mi
RESEARCH - CRIME

ReBulet dated 7-9-53.

Sheriff CHARLES RADCLYFR, Circleville, Pickaway County,
Ohio, advised he is cognizant of 4“flying saucer" report made by Mr. BRUCE
STEVENSON, Rural Route 2, Circlevillé;Onid.”“Atcording to Sheriff RADCLIFF,
Mr. STEVENSON reported that a saucer-shaped object had landed on his farm
some time ago, and this report eventually reached local news: In
June, 1953, an individual d ussed the matter with Mr. STEV N. Sheriff
RADCLIFF advised that this persondid not, to his knowledge, represent
himself te be an FBI Agent. Sheriff further declared that he has known
BRUCE N all his life and that he is a prosperous, well-respected
local Pare who is considered trustworthy.

Mr, BRUGE VENSON, Rural Route 2, was interviewed 7-1-53
at which time he stated that shortly after he received some publicity regard-
ing his report of sighting a saucer-shaped object, he was visited by one
SiC se RN, who gave his address as Post Offi Box 5112, Tri-Village
Station, Columbus, Ohio. According to Mr. S' ON, GRANT told him he was
a salesman of television antennas, and that for over six years he had
been pursuing the hobby of investigating "flying saucer" reports. He
emphasized that he had no official connection h any part of t
ment, but stated that he had once been "checked" by the FBI. Mr. S' NSON
declared that GRANT showed him pictures of "flying saucers" and told him he
was writing a book on the subject, which would be published soon.

A search of the Cincinnati indices revealed no information
identifiable with either BRUCE STEVENSON or JACK W. GRANT.
DOE:VD

ANSD

- F356, 337

“chaNeeD 10
GA -fo 21030 ~ fy

g

: Stanoano ron iq. 04

Office Menanduin ¢ UNITED @...; GOVERNMENT”

TO : Director, FBI ies DATE: 4 /12/5h,.

SAC, Newark (62-0)

INFORMATION REGARDING NEW
PRINCIPLES OB*KERO-DYNAMICS
ALOIS PIVEC - INFORMANT

Enclosed herewith are photostats of parts of two letters
furnished by ALOIS PIVEC and his wife, OLGA PIVEC,, both of 16)
Hallstead Street, Hast Orange, NJ.

Both photostats are in German and concern the development
of a new principle in aero-dynamics and alleged attempts by the
Communists in Austria to obtain this information.

There is also enclosed a blind memo, setting forth the
summary of the information in the letters and the circumstances
under which they were obtained.

This information is being furnished to the Bureau for
whatever action is deemed appropriate.

The indices of the Newark Office are negative regarding
ALOIS PIVEC, OLGA PIVEC and AQOLPH DORNIG.

Encls. (7)

ec NK 100-17007

REGISTERED MAIL

we

© Data Gated wocrel Esme 4-E habe tah eskathon . Goto Fund fer He Gorn’ hint
biatch gona 26 ovis ed. Eiytinndan . - Beispiel - Wh whuiel vehon ver Lig tm
NS Below ah oa Ze Soda FGai wad witn vm Voyinke rth Tine
Sah bine, ello awehln . ~ Bnfnrnsine Goi hon —t hichetows i
ai Rigclin Agatha dale vt mink lls, Ab tok wor Jahren om dar Fhwveyn_
tober. 6 lagi tit Commanee —A. Ha tt. Cairn Csnheover chtute,'
ets Be, Ay tor, “Ten Mai bs 9 sa seem Poevhowi aye
mae aytce a briny A mete mit Byte arin Dirovtensiane nga Atle, foots
pl atihe in tre Shudl, dr baackla wih doatin Wed et xe aca
Fit ms eiktookbs , Rha abn mrk WH. weein waht reek? me ony
Ti credthe dah wt Ln Godlon meat alle ot Yow em on Fagen mae
Finger acfaominh, angle hakes y Be” medial toh a hen dove, HA an Cy 00
Het Yar Ti drands20n , 32h Mate thn wishtellornnte. aber veberrhar Lat
wa wth ohn, — Dederh wreck hh weal re Baglionclar, DAR vekag te Mice:
hievign Atadlthd, mon Ef. oy} (v0 20t Dhow) * bntnot dawn Meine, Aly
seh dif Oy timmal hati Kanade hte, sufiheinh nom worimin Orgrhans shia
, Athan ontbick chron a0 Contd gal Sect land Yard) 7 rewire Angin
sha die tetfeatin Sen. Fey ox ahibfan wank cong. Pichexpmton
wr im Mevradar ane Fomhrerg, Habirr~ otrtte. mace. =. 2.~, Ah prige
initia toy (He aot di'a Jie Wet merna ht oh heh mere Ef nme:
Yoho a Vrewsthin “ae tyre. Bbarnacd tharwets , Lhe trove
Dring bie, ve Manbine aa fohe. Winsor we nk hen Air hvay
Wm AW 4 d

ahr.
eave
AUSTA Vogel Aat Sn cecnin Piallen Yaorrerer Sad.
wooed 1h AGP Hffemdtirh mage 1 An thie horn enirti makin, Ayrmpols acink
ao fnew wba jah Min memiet tt “04 nh ov eh lhe Hale

Ma nett lore toe Beto fb cpm 0 aeht Lartet plate irk anindt- |
rbmskh rh one, deh tie Reoherreecece vied aft tewackt, sins endow
hom ink doh Be. (Heresedtorhaft) cchintor, hie Jommhhagin Har,
maentlinn pais A989 Mle reine Vrrricke an: he Uh a> Maremnmon prin plea mate

coca mmcstelt, Dek Moree amrakt ri hen , Da ih mir erition (Virprantterdhafp)
eM Ghanrertin nin Nithihlannecthsdon Cnporat, ) ol chin, Kyo pone
Avena, rete rmens allen arin dale Ph ant h ASK perk tm Virose’
YY OTN Prk y bon be ho, Hoe ay wtf mororvaban, Weg jt he oe
Fay ane pefae rharioh awehf mrefr Aiecer , Oe Brcd rrr eep eth
emteril” maton, Mig eedlan ia habe Haken. As tah im~', Canton. vebotab magn

i Bf tong b RIGA ES sy Sihetring Age wets Before
hes, dam cen int wakecntar Ambre oe earehiansnale, wi th wk
Frin den PSS cin Anitiny mscmahte 7h Lente tha mig. Cypuate , ga v4 of

qh ah BRD ND addahee Be LY ot eee HR vad

ie cae Nh ES Rasdk Ea Dann R ste Dee ER Won garners denne

ema nw Yeoh
“ Bxdaw[eRrepambiah
Ay } SW Avala pO

}

AS sant spring ae UNE Qin, Sisee RNG nes gent SR nares y green cI

wey ices der Bader ME — eh - QR UL oe te Scan ecuenhal
de eet, ee QD see (EP teow odds gue BAVT
RENE sade ete eas RARS see hes BH eS Seats Shae ds wad Ninn
BS rce aR enc Po sescsien see eek ET UIA LR een Bn were
ay Fann ercachenenveniany ies eB NL Sot Krad er Ditere lon siren,

SO ee hoe Sea’ ARAN cha Jere Sow she cose sits ah sakshoste
[SENTRY Satan Nee cine ARQ OR Sree adn MRE Gta ons ek
| > Sere ran geS en yoetes aT A, BSo Len Rnd New das dev,
seein Rie eee oR RBIS Ngsas od (sien EAS de Mire crcl ads
SSARYRS ae AI Rovere “ee Dod Shinn ® SB. Whe ayers Senn See WWD
A sa diccestes wha teeta Sicher es a cenat Soe Lae cctansh oh
wereade Sepa ane NE steer GS ode Mevine waded. Seren hemslQ — Ae Meee a
WBS ante prea Nr dted Ssh: sane 4 AS can WANS me ay
ae ern petnee wen MAS ana eh Qeeeca PAE bo

yok ee ee penn ost ishe aie eget nic Re ee,
ed ent NB eta SLs Motus nh gon vette oe <ONigea hee
ea EO esac oY Had Gemenea IE cance 20 ‘S Smee Seman
ase ORNS UR Lu ote ee cctl Sea seen antes gd ade hee
Saha pe so erereedR sD hR vetee AR Soe AORROAQ AY 9 cred)
Sinn Sergent sadvee' Aceon tncrneeeet 28 Oyen <> Seed hs FER) Kei Oo been
Sidr SUS Rs Sedolbsinve hes \Sroheatoan stdk Soy Satis. Kneom prtrren
f  od3a, con cm Nae reed Nee Sco etl suhhen aces mest do 2 wong Saati aha on
Nite bets reed Neatan Wn rennin ete cote suc eval Nan Stat
speeaure GSS Masnarods Proto doho Setenn seoeereee SOS 2'0n Node caesire Ses Mewes,
5B magedden cap sie Bane cs WoedteateedH) SAT Hess dow ma
| Yemen WEN Quebec wtnerak He ad sds weoie SSRN cases EEL ee Sabor
To aber renga jnalnas crea Ss AG, ABMS Sen meee RS Sra See ©
{ Tans he RR ese Meneer aang) -atreon de, cca SEES
| Fee SY aes Mating AUDA Sev Dade areas Sy saimere Ws . anne
| Se SNE OR OW -Sterrermer Nias cas Se mete Seay 1 eerenredk
Noster ser dee eB Qn shone Where Senne Res achoe ~~ yA
IN ioceo, “seaey dwAse eahesD Can Me WL, DUK kde ate caheah ACR elektro ney

REA SS Deen, Sade 26 onan ESA Ry NN. madedkieely stew,”

i
TRANSLATION FROM GERMAN

12-21-53

Mr. ALOIS PIWETZ
16) Halsted Str.
New Jersey, U. S. A.

Dear Mr. PIWETZ,

Your brother will probably have communicated with you about
me as we became acquainted with each other at a construction job. I
told him a few things about inventions or utilization. Dear lr. PIWETZ,
be not angry with me because I am now turning to youe I hesitated such
along time as my wife does not wish to go abroad. Enclosed I am
sending you 2 inventions, that is, ideas and I leave it to your own
power of judgment whether one or both, or none of these inventions
is suitable. If one seems to be profitable to you, you should apply
for a patent in your own name as the best possible way and enter for me
and for yourself 5% each of the net profit and 10% for your brother.
I am giving you entirely a free hand, as you will undoubtedly try to
attain the greatest possible profit.

And now, dear Mr. PIWETZ, I am taking the liberty of telling
you something about an invention which the entire world wants to have.
(I am only writing the most important facts.) Before the war I intended
to make a toy, something which flies, and purely accidentally I discovered
a hitherto unknown aerodynamic law. I experimented further. I improved
and informed several comrades. They were enthused and emigrated to
South America. There they tried it on their ow responsibility. People
were killed and they failed to perfect the incomplete invention. They
approached me again. As they were only artisans, these flying machines
were, of course, built primitively. The first experiments to fly with
a motorcycle motor attained the result of 250-300 km. Not bad for the
years 1938-391 With a powerful motor they then flew 2600-2800 kn.

(hour kilometers).

“t)

After the war they came to me again and told me about their
misfortune, that about 60% of all flights had been fatal. To make
it very clear, they wanted to find out how I construct my flying
apparatuses, because with a device, which endangers lives,they could
not, of course, appear before the public, and, therefore, all this is
still, so to speak, a private secret. In America, this flying
machine is called "flying saucer," and since among my former comrades
a@ quarrel broke out and they distrust each other and none of them has
the intelligence, which this invention demands, they have not progressed
over there.

I imagine that they have stubbornly adhered to some construction,
that is, become involved in it that they cannot advance. It has taken
me years to reach the point where I can already say with respect to the
construction plan that now the machine issafe for flying. Thereby I
am losing, however, some speed, but, in return for it, safety is secured
and this is the main thing. This machine is so very simple in its
construction that, if one gives me an engineer and experts, I can build
this apparatus in 5 to 6 weeks at the most (but only experimentally
for a crew of 1 to 3 men). Then this machine attains, with an automobile
motor of 80 to 120 h.p. about 700 to 1,000 kn. If a firm would exist,
which does not shun the costs, I can, because of the simple construction
of the machine, build the first machine immediately in such a manner that
it exceeds the 2000 km. limit per hour.

Because of the new aerodynamic law it is possible without
any difficulty (everything without propellers) to reach such speeds.
Now the idea has come to me to build some kind of popular flying machine |\
which is cheaper than an automobile. One does not need any
starting or landing strip and one would have a travelling speed of
about 500 to 700 km. per hour. I believe that America would be the
most favorable place in the world for it. You will now understand that I
am very anxious to establish contact with a firm which is greatly
interested in this invention. But as I have no knowledge of English,
it is for me, from the very beginning, an affair which will come to
nothing. If you, dear Mr. PIWETZ, can start the matter, you will not
have done it in vain. I am not niggardly and besides I want to go
to the U. S. A. to realize there a still larger project for which I
need co-workers. The circular flying machines shall bring me the money
for my further future plans, for I believe popular flying machines,
accerding to my model and besides 100% safe from crash, will be a
gigantic business. I do not know the magnates over there; perhaps
HENRY FORD or an airplane factory, possibly a helicopter plant would
be interested in it.

But I shall announce the names of my comrades only after
I have received a contract pertaining to license or gratuities and
after my arrival in the U. S. However, it must be added that I shall
not lay out the money for the passage if some firm accepts me for the
construction of the flying machines. But in addition to all that I
need someone who lives over there and who knows the English language,
and now I am asking you, my dear Mr. PIWETZ,whether youc an
function as my manager as they say in the U. S. A. Well, you know
that the manager receives payment, and I believe that you will
enjoy working with me later on inventions when I am over there.
Incidentally I mention that I took a course as a chemist,(The "Do" -
apparatuses, later called fog - or rocket-missiles, originated with me
and also many other things.) I hope that you can decipher my
hieroglyphic script. Such small writing is not in my line. So that
you may see that I am not exaggerating, I declare upon oath that the
invention, known by the name of "flying saucer," is my own, that I know
the men who are building these machines in South America, and that I
can construct the above-described machine myself and attain at least
2000 km.

/s/ A. DORNIG.

I hope that you will be interested init. I am awaiting
your communication very hopefully.

With friendly greetings,
Respectfully,

/s/ ADOLF DORNIG

ADOLF DORNIG
Waidmannsdorferstr. 80
Klagenfurt - West

Dear Mr. PIVEC,

I have received your letter of 1-12, on 1-19. Many thanks
for your efforts. With joy I have taken cognizance of the fact that
you have already contacted American authorities concerning my invention.
However, I have no great hopes, because I know that with the U. S.
everything is defective, exactly as with the English. - Example:
Already a long time ago I wrote 2 or 3 letters to the U. S. authorities
at Salzburg and I was in Salzburg myself during the past year, but
everything wes in vain. -— At the most, in response to my letters, some
Russian agent comes; that is all. When I wrote in Switzerland at
first to President TRUMAN and then to President EISENHOWER through an
official bureau, also everything was of no avail. In the end, always
Russian agents come. In May 1953, a big dirty pig arrived who wanted to
make me believe that he would take me in an automobile to the emigration
office for Austrians in Switzerland. He enraged me to such an extent that
I hit him in the face with my fist. But he had also helpers and I am
not sure how it ended. I awoke,lying on the ground, and all had disappeared.
Several days ago a man approached me at my working place who only pointed
a finger upon me, saying: "You!" When I looked at him; he quickly ran
away. I could not recognize him, but seemingly he knew me. - But
the English are even more stupid. I wrote to the local city commendant's
office about my invention (just like to you) but no reply came. When
at one time I accidentally listened to "Radio Canada," I learned about
my statements. Those people said that one had finally succeeded (possibly
Scotland Yard) to obtain exact data on the German flying saucers and
that one would, therefore, establish a research station in Canada with
English experts, etc. I wondered whether the entire world had gone crazy.
I offer my invention for sale, and those people make such a noise about it!
They will never perfect the machine without my data. Well, I let you
know that I am somewhat in the bad books here; strictly speaking since 1937,
because of our eagle, also called misfortune. Our coat of arms, the bird

of Austria, has in its claws hammer and sickle, and when I announced

in 193(7)7 in public that the communist symbols also appear on our
money, the gendarmery arrested me and told me that I was crazy. Since

I repeatedly declared that a “red dog" sits in the government in
complete secrecy, everything has failed. But that since then an
information has always been based upon the word crazy, I de not believe,
although I know that the communists have always guarded me very strictly.
Furthermore, I accidentally (relatives) discovered the fundamentals

of Russian atom physics (a law of nature, unknown to America) and,
therefore, since 1933 all my attempts to get into the U. S, A. have
been frustrated in every respect. I cannot journey to that cauntry.
Since I (relatives) also exactly know the most secret Russian
communications methods (apparatuses) and the system, they are doing their
utmost to prevent me from establishing contact with the U. S. A.

I hardly believe that it will be possible by normal means. I shall not
place myself into an airplane again! The Americans do not know

how many Russian agents are with them. After I had written to the
Pentagon about my invention, a rejection arrived. From Salzburg I have
never received a reply. Seemingly, the English have lost my address and
when I reported to the lecs} FSS that I can construct the Russian
apparatuses, I received...

*) praminer's comment: This communication is incomplete.

ADOLPH DORNIG

On Jamary 12, 1954, ALOIS PIVEC, 16) Hallstead Street, Rast Orange,
NJ, appeared at the Newark Office and advised that he had received a letter
from one ADOLP) NIG, Waidmannsdorferstr 80, Klagenfurt, West Austria,
on about December 20, 1953.

PIVEC stated that the letter requested him to attempt to sell
a number of inventions, which he, DORNIG, had developed. PIVEC stated that
the request was to contact Aircraft Companies and Sewing Machine Companies
in the United States and attempt to interest them in these devices.

According to PIVEC, DORNIG requested that no governmental agencies
be contacted. Pi Rebates that the inventions, which DORNIG had developed
were new type of-Sewing machine and a flying saucer. PIVEC stated that he
came to this office because he felt that the flying saucer was of some
importance in the national defense of this country. PIVEC stated that he
has never met DORNIG but that DORNIG was given his name by 'S brother,
FRITZ, who resides in Graz, Austria, and who is employed at Siemens-falske
Belggier Gasse 11, Graz, Austria. PIVEC stated that his brother workedwith
DORNIG, at one time, and he believes that DORNIG is a chemist or some type
of engineer. PIVEC stated that the contents of the letter seemed fantastic
to him and that if the letter were not written in such an intelligent manner,
he would have doubted DORNIG'S sanity. He stated that DORNIG claims to
have sold a new principle of aero-dynamics, which made it possible to
construct a practical flying saucer and that DORNIG had developed a model
that flies without the usual hazards. According to PIVEC, the letter
continues by stating that DORNIG has been in contact with other men through-
out the world, who have been attempting to develop the saucer and that he
has been the first to win real success.

By way of vase iia stats that he was born in the
vicinity of Leoben, Austria in 1925 and arrived in New York City on March
29, 1952 from Bremerhaven, Germany. He is employed at the Public Service
Laboratory in Maplewood, NJ. \

On January 30, 1954, OLGA PIVEC, 16) Hallstead Street, East Orange,
NJ, appeared at the Newark Office and advised that she was the wife of
ALOIS PIVEC. She stated that another letter had been received from ADOLPH
DORNIG, by her husband, ALOIS PIVEC. She stated that her husband did not
want to furnish the information in this letter to the FBI. She stated that
he was not aware that she was furnishing this information and wished to keep
the interview confidential. i

ESTROYED
NOV 19 1964

Mrs. PIVEC stated that the letter received recently by her
husband, from DORNIG, contained information that DORNIG had been contacted
by Commnists in Austria, who wished to take him to Switzerland in order
that he might further develop his new principle of aero=dynamics. According
to the letter, DORNIG has continued to refuse any offer by the Commnists
and wished PIVEC to increase his efforts to sell tio gi s nem invention
in the United States,

We ral 12037 V DS

By way of background, OLG: advised that she was born of
German parents in South Russid.and at the time of the German invasion of
Russia, during World War IT, she and her family were resettled. in Germany.
After the war, she married ALOTS PEVEC and came to the United States with
hin.

Tolson

Belmont
Clegg
Glavin
Harbo

May 18, 1954

Director of Speetal Investigations
The Inspector General

Department of the Air Force

The Pentagon

Washington 25, De Cs

From: John Edgar Hoover, Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation

Subjects FLYING SAUCERS
MISCELLAWEOUS = INFORMATION CONCERNING

FI

There is attached a copy of a memorandum dated
April 12, 1954, captioned “Adolph Dornig" which contains
information furnished to the Newark office of this Bureau
by Alois Piveo and his wife, Olga Pivee, both of
145 Hallstead Street, Fast Orange, New Jersey. There is
also attached a translation from the German language of the

parts of the two letters furnished by, Pivec and his wije
to the Newark office.

The files of this Bureau fail to reflect that
any tnvestigation has been conducted by this Bureau of
Adolph Dornig, Alois Piveo, or Olga Pivec. In view of
the information set forth in the attached memordndum dated
April 12, 1954, and the translation of the parts of the
letters referred to herein, no investigation is contemplated
by this Bureau in this matter.

Ag yyernent

H ?
co - 1 - Records Administration Branch (Alpocimtn t)
“Attention: Criminal Division
(by Or 6wform on same date)

zi fs
EHM:plv ny

FEDERAL BUREAU |
RECORDS SECTION

eer 1954

[Name Check Unit-Room 6523
EJ Attention

Co Service Unit-! Room 6524
(Forward to File Review /

CG )Return to Ze. 7 LIEXt.
Supervisor. o
Room ZF,

COAII References

=) Subversive References

[J Main References Only

CC Main. References Only
Co Restrict to Locality of

(2 Breakdown C1 Buildup CJVariations

[2 Exact Name Only
CO Exact Spelling
(Check for Alphabetical Loyalty Form

SUBJECT

Address

Localities

Birthdate & Place.

Searcher
Date <// Initial 2%

FILE NUMBER SERIAL

FEDERAL BUREAU See
; RECORDS SECTION

[J Name Check Unit-' Room 6523.
CS Attention (£P2 20
(Service Unit- Room 6525

[1 Forward to File Review

G)Return to Z J#xt.
Supervisor ¢
Room €

CIUAI1 References

5] Subversive References, }7 0-2
[Main References Only

Co Main References Only

fT Restrict, to.Localiity one.
(2 Breakdown (—] Buildup [Variations
(Exact Name Only

T Exact Spelling

[Check for Alphabetical Loyalty Form

SUBJECT

Address

Localities

Birthdate & Place.

Searcher < ,
pate “44 Sinitial A®

FILE NUMBER SERIAL

FEDERAL BUREAU ee
: RECORDS SECTION

[Name Check Unit-Room ee
EJAttention Lat o

(D Service Unit-Room 6524
(“Forward to File Review

CReturn to_zZ-ebug Ext.
Supervison
Room Pg

CI AI1 References

[4 Subversive References, //c
(5 Main References Only

(2 Main. References Only
Co Restrict to Locality of

(2 Breakdown C_] Buildup C_1Variations

C3 Exact Name Only
(CO Exact Spelling
(J Check for Alphabetical Loyalty Form

SUBJECT__“?

Address

Localities

Birthdate & Place.

yf Searcher
pate 7/25 Initial =

FILE NUMBER SERIAL

Ts

Lo Sf ¢ -~ BP
cuineen 40.”

G2 701030 -

G2-F327H¢ ~3Y4 0
CHANGED TO
Ger O03 A i

Tolson
Ladd_
Nichols
Belmont
Clegg —

Glavi

Harbo

Rosen

Tracy

Geary

Mohe —___
Winterrowd —

April 27, 1954

~~
Miss Linda Butler
Bor 63

ilton, Xentueky

Thank you very much for your letter of

April 21, 1954.

Although I would like to be of assistance,
it is not possible for me to express an opinion
regarding the subject you mentioned since it does

-not relate to a matter within the jurisdiction of the

FEIls

You may desire, however, to connunicate
with The Honorable, The Secretary of the Air Force,
The Pentagon, Washington 25, De Cay for whatever
inforzetion he can give yote

Sincerely yours,

John Edgar Hoover
Director

NOTE: First name salutation is being used since the
correspondent indicates she is a. seventh grade student.
She requested the Director's opinion regarding Flying Saucers.

i
COMM — FBI |

954 |
MAILED 31.

April-21-1954
Milton, Ky.

Federal Bureau
of Investegation

Washington

De Ce
Dear Sir,
The seventh grade of Milton

Are studying about Flying Saucers.
and I would like to have your
opinion on them,

Sincerely Yours,

Linda Butler
Milton, Ky.

Address on envelope
Bor 63
Milton, Kye

Cc

OP ay.

‘

Office Memorandum * UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO : Director, FBI DATES) 628-5)

SAC, Cincinnati (100-0)

SUBJECT: TRUMAN BETHURUM;
YING DISCS
INFORMATION CONCERNING.

oe On 6-7-5), Mrs zs /ICKHOFF, 3721 Tappan Avenue, Cincinnati 23,

{ Ohio, and Mr. RALP IN, 2768 Highlend Avenue, Cincinnati 12, Ohio,
called at this office. Mr. EICKHOFF advised he is the operator of a beauty
salon in the Neave Building, Cincinnati, and Mr. ZIMMERMANN advised he is
President of the Zimmermann Packing Company in Cincinnati. Mr. EICKHOFF
did all the talking for the two men and he furnished the following informa~
tion:

On 6-3-5 an ad appeared in the "Cincinnati Enquirer," a newspaper of
general circulation, Cincinnati, Ohio, to the effect that on 611-5]
program would be presented at Taft Auditorium, Cincinnati, Ohio, on "The
Real Flying Saucer Story." The advertisement which Mr. EICKHOFF exhibited
disclosed no sponsor for this program and it was only noted on the ad
that tickets for the program sold for $2.00 per person and would be on sale
at the Central Ticket Office in Cincinnati.

Mr. EICKHOFF advised that although he belongs to no organization
interested in flying saucers, he has been interested in this subject and
has been interested to the extent that he desired to know the sponsorship
of the program. He stated that he found out from the Central Ticket Office
that the ad had been placed by HENRY MADAY, 36) West Lewiston Avenue, }
Ferndale 20, Michigan. He advised that he telephoniedlly contacted MADAY
on 6-3-5 and MADAY stated that he was only the ‘or renting the
hall and that he was acting on behalf of TR ‘THURUM and GEORGE
HUNT WILLIAMSON. He statedethat on 6-l-5) MADAY’called him back and told
him that there had been a disagreement between MADAY, BETHURUM and
WILLIAMSON over MADAY's arrangements for the sale of tickets for the
program and the renting of the hall.

EICKHOFF advised that at this time MADAY said nothing to discredit
either BETHURUM or WILLIAMSON and indicated that their disagreement only
concerned his placing the ad in the newspaper prior to having the tickets
for the program available in Cincinnati. Cet Z

RCD:CVM

CC: Los Angeles (RM) RECORDED - 86
Indianapolis (RM) cing MY
DEXED ~ 86

REGISTERED MAIL
ATR MATL SPECIAL DELIVERY

TROYED

270 NOV 19 1964

Letter to Director
June 8, 195)

and a SPEAKER, who confirmed to him that MADAY was no longer
( associated with them, and who asked that EICKHOFF meet with them at a

Mr. EICKHOFF continued that ten minutes after he had abe to
MADAY ie itera, a he received a call from GEORGE LAMSON

Wa luncheon at the Terrace Plaza Hotel on 6-7-5).

Mr, EICKHOFF, in explanation of his interest in this matter, ad-
vised that he had read such books as "Flying Saucers From Outer Space,"
written by DONALD E. KEHOE, retired major, U. S. Marine Corps, which book
was published by Harper's Publishers, and a book entitled "Flying
Saucers Have Landed," by GEORGE ADAMSKI, which book is published by
Werner-Lowery Company in England, and is distributed by the British
Book Center in New York City. He said that he has also heard broadcasts
by persons hé considers reputable news commentators, such as WALTER
WINCHELL, FULTON LEWIS, JR., and FRANK EDWARDS, to the effect that
reliable persons have reported observing flying discs or saucers, He
said contrary to these reports, the U. S. Air Force has denied the ex-
istence of the flying saucer and he felt that persons such as TRUMAN
BETHURUM and GEORGE HUNT WILLIAMSON, in presenting a program such as that
contemplated, were either truthful or they were frauds. He stated that
if they had a true story to tell, then he felt it was of such nature
that it should be given as wide a distribution as possible, so that the
people might learn the true facts regarding flying discs. He said,
however, if their story was not true, then the holding of such a
meeting as was contemplated would be a fraud on the general public.

He estimated that such a meeting in Cincinnati might draw two thousand
people, which, at $2.00 apiece, would result in a $),000.00 take for
the promoters.

To identify TRUMAN BETHURUM, Mr, EICKHOFF had with him two copies
of the magazine "Valor," which he stated he got from BETHURUM, this
magagine being self-identified as the "Golden Times Weekly," published
by Soul Craft Chapels, Post Office Box 192, Noblesville, Indiana. The
two issues which Mr, EICKHOFF had with him were numbers 15 and 16 of
volume 6 of the publication, the number 15 being dated 2-6-5) and
number 16 being dated 2-13-5), The number 15 issue contained an article
concerning TRUMAN BETHURUM, in which he is identified as a truck driver
from Redondo Beach, California, and it refers to an article dated
12-31-53, which appeared in the “Daily Breeze," a newspaper at Redondo
Beach, California, which allegedly contained a description of an encounter

Letter to Director
dune 8, 195k

which TRUMAN BETHURUM had with a crew of assumed space explorers under
the supervision of a ravishing woman commandant in the Nevada desert.
The article also reflects that TRUMAN BETHURUM allegedly was aboard
flying saucers on eleven occasions. At the bottom of the first page
of issue number 15 there appeared in what Mr. EICKHOFF stated was the
handwriting of TRUMAN BETHURUM the statement "This is a true story, a
factual experience --— TRUMAN BETHURUM."

The above mentioned article in "Valor" also reflected that TRUMAN
BETHURUM is 55 years of age and that his residence address is 519 North
Gertruda Avenue, Redondo Beach, California.

Mr. EICKHOFF also had with him a letter addressed to TRUMAN BETHURUM
from WILLIAM GILROY of the Saucers Research Foundation, which letter re—
flected that that organization was holding a three-day convention June },
5 and 6, 195) at the Carthay Circle Theatre in Los Angeles, California,
and that it had invited TRUMAN BETHURUM to this convention to say a few
words concerning his experience, GILROY was identified in this letter as
business manager of Criswell Predicts Your World of Tomorrow, 1922 North
Highland, Hollywood 28, California.

Mr. EICKHOFF reiterated that he felt BETHURUM's story, if true,
should be given wide publicity, but that if the story was false, then he
should be prosecuted for fraud. He stated that he first took his in-
formation to the Air Force in thé -person.of Lieutenant colonel JOHN
OMMARA~Of Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio, whom EICKHDFF visited
personally at O'MARA's home in Fairborn, Ohio, on Sunday, 6-6-5], _
EICKHOFF indicated that he asked Colonel O'MARA if there were such things
as flying saucers and if BETHURUM's story could be true, and he said
O'MARA denied that there was such a thing as a flying saucer and indicated
to him that DONALD E. KEHOE, the author of "Flying Saucers in Outer
Space" was a fraud and that information is available in Washington that
KEHOE is a fraud. He said he was advised, however, by Colonel O'MARA
that the Air Force could take no action with respect to BETHURUM or WILL-
TAMSON,

EICKHOFF continued that it was his intention to aid in the
promotion of a meeting for BETHURUM in Cincinnati. He advised that the
original meeting scheduled for June 11 had been cancelled, and that he
felt this meeting had such important information for the people as a whole
that he was going to make every effort to make the meeting one of national

Letter to Director;
June 8, 1954

significance. “He said he intended to invite to the meeting all nationally
prominent news commentators, He intended to try to get radio time to ad=
vertise the meeting but he did not wish to participate in this matter in
any way if it would violate security regulations in any manner, or if
BETHURUM and his associates were in any way fraudulent. He stated that he
so informed BETHURUM, WILLIAMSON and Mr, MANSPEAKER at the luncheon meeting
which was held at the Terrace Plaza Hotel on 6-7-5. They informed him
that they were not afraid of an investigation; that BETHURUM's story was
factual, and that they had no objection to EICKHOFF's advising Government
authorities regarding it.

Mr. BICKHOFF stated that his report to this office was part of his
plan to inform all the Federal agencies he thought should know about the |
activities of BETHURUM. He advised that in line with his contemplated I
plans that on ening of 6-7-5) there was to be another meeting at the
home of L. He/STRINGFIELD, 7017 Britton Avenue, Cincinnati 27, Ohio, at
which meeting there would be Mr. STRINGFIELD, WILLIAMSON, MANSPEAKER,
BETHURUM, RALPH ZIMMERMANN and Mr. EICKHOFF. He said at this meeting
they would plan a method of operation and make arrangements for this
meeting of national significance. He said he intended to set the date of
the meeting far enough in advance so that if any Governmental agency
determined that there was fraud involved that agency would have sufficient
time to act prior to the holding of the meeting. He advised he intended
to keep a detailed record of all actions taken by this group, and that he
would voluntarily furnish such information to the FBI.

EICKHOFF advised that he had not known and had not met either
BETHURUM, WILLIAMSON or MANSPEAKER prior to the events described above.
He said that GEORGE HUNT WILLIAMSON identified himself as an archeologist
and a writer for the magazine "Valor," who resides in Noblesville, Indiana.

He said that MANSPEAKER, whose first name he did not know, is also
connected with "Valor" magazine in some way.

He was asked as to what interest "Valor" magazine has in BETHURUM,
and whether BETHURUM was sponsored by any other organization. He advised
that he did not know the interest of "Valor" magazine in BETHURUM, and
so far as he knew, BETHURUM was acting on his own and had no organizational
affiliations or sponsorship. He was asked as to what disposition would be
made of receipts from a large meeting and he advised that he did not know
what disposition would be made of the money. He said he understood that

Letter to Director;
June 8, 195)

BETHURUM had been on tour for some time and that the meeting scheduled
for Cincinnati originally on 6-11-5) was to be the beginning of a new
series of meetings.

The files of this office contain no information which can be
identified with THOMAS EICKHOFF, TRUMAN BETHURUM, GEORGE HUNT WILLIAMSON,
J. H. STRINGFIELD, and Lt. Col. JOHN O'MARA.

The indices reflect that by letter dated 2-7-52, Indianapolis
file 61-5, the Indianapolis Office advised the Cincinnati Office under the
caption of "Silver Shirt Legion of America, Inc.; Internal Security - X,"
that the Silver Shirt Legion of America, Inc., whose leader is WILLIAM
DUDLEY FELLEY, was at that time operating under the name ofSoul Craft
Press, with headquarters and printing facilities in Noblesville, Indiana.

With regard to RALPH ZIMMERMANN, the indices of this office reflect
that as of July, 1942, he was general manager of the Zimmermann Packing
Company, a mechanical packing firm at 139-11 West Fourth St., Cincinnati.

No further action is being taken in this matter by this office,
and the foregoing is for the Bureau's information and for the information
of the Los Angeles and Indianapolis Offices.

SAC, Cincinnati dune 22, 1954
I (62-83894) oS y¥ &

TRUMAN BETHURUM;
, FLYING DISCS
‘I AVE MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING
Bw (ESPIONAGE )

RECORDED -3 Director, FB.

Reurlet 6/8/54.

You are instructed to recontact Thomas Eickhoff, referred to
in your referenced letter and advise him this Bureau has no
jurisdiction concerning the investigation of matters relating
to flying dises and that the United States Air Force has such
jurisdiction. You are instructed to advise him this Bureav cannot
approve or disapprove of his activities in connection with this
matter and that the placing of this Bursau on notice as to his
activities will not exonerate him in the event he engages in any
fraudulent or criminal activities.

You are instructed to furnish the information set forth
in your referenced letter to OSI locally and to the Bureau in a
memorandum suitable for dissemination to OSI headquarters,

NOTE: Thomas Eickhoff, Cincinnati, Ohio, advised the Cincinnati
office he is interested in flying discs and has recently met several
persons who claimed to have had experiences with flying discs. He
stated he intended to assist such persons in arranging for public
meeting in Cincinnati, at which matters relating to flying discs
will be discussed and that he expects the meeting will result

in a "four thousand dollar take." He advised he believed the
experiences alleged by the persons referred to above and that those
persons would participate in the meeting. He stated he had been
advised by the Air Force that it was it's opinion claims made by
the persons referred to above concerning flying discs and their
experiences with same were fraudulent. He stated he wanted to

put all federal agencies on notice in order that they could act to
prevent the planned mecting re flying discs if it was deemed necessary
by the Government.

Tolson_ EHM:egp £97

| CONM — FET |

JUN 221954
MAILED 27

Winterrowd
Tele. Room__
Holloman,

Miss Gandy

DIRECTOR, FBI 6/A8/5h
SAC, SEATTLE

REPORTS ON ALLEGED SIGHTING OF SUBMARINES,
PARACHUTE LANDINGS, FLASHING LIGHTS, ETC.
- Eee

Z It has been the experience of this office that during this season,
Tom now until winter, there is received a considerable number of alleged
fae on sighting of submarines, flashing lights, parachute landings,
flying saucers, etc, in every instance when such reports are received,
the information is immediately disseminated to DIO, 13 ND, U. S. Navy;
OSI, USAF; and R-3, U. S. Army.

Inasmuch as Seattle is the District Headquarters for the Intelligence Ss
Agencies in the Pacific Northwest, reports received, usually from the USCG, \
concerning incidents in the state of Oregon are immediately reported to {
that office as well as the Intelligence Agencies. ‘ |

Many of the reports are of a nebulous type, impossible of corroborating, V
and of doubtful authenticity. Some, by preliminary inquiry and evaluation,
prove to be without foundation. However, as stated above, reports of this
type are immediately disseminated to the Intelligence Agencies without
evaluation, followed by additional information as obtained.

This office has no control of the dissemination of these reports
on a "spot" basis by the local intelligence offices to their Headquarters
in Washington, D. C. The Bureau will recall the widespread dissemination
given by the military agencies of "Radio Message March 13, 1953, Interpreted
FF ying for Mobilization of Commmist Party" (SAC Letter #23, dated
3/31/53) «

The purpose of this letter is to advise the Bureau that in all
instances immediate dissemination is made of all umsual incidents that
appear to have any military significance. This office also acts as a co-
ordinator on all reports to be certain that all interested agencies are
cognizant,

The Bureau may be assured that it will be kept advised of all
significant incidents as they arise but will not be bothered with every
trivial incident that occurs unless instructed.

LADshz } Lm /, oF RGSS id ,
ec: Portland NOT RNCOR DAD :
Enels. | 87 JUL 9 1954

3 JuL.19 1004

TNITIALS ON ORTGINA

DIRECTOR, FBI SAC, SEATTLE
RE: REPORTS ON ALLEGED SIGHTING OF SUBMARINES, 6-18-54
PARACHUTE LANDINGS, FLASHING LIGHTS, ETC.
ESPIONAGE

OSI advises us that they have no interest whatsoever
themselves in connection with these matters and that Operations
of the Air Force doesn't even advise them. Colonel S. W. RAYNOR,
District Commander, OSI, states that there is an evaluation at
Wright-Patterson Field where the data is correlated, that the
reports are handled from the Air Force here to that point in a
routine fashion and that OSI gives no credence whatsoever to it
because they have never had any previous experience of any kind
as to anything arising out of the situation.

There is attached hereto a copy of a communication
marked "CONFIDENTIAL" requesting data concerning the situation
as well as several recent publications, some of which are issued
by the Air Force itself. It is the opinion of Colonel RAYNOR
that the releases are a poor thing and create mass hysteria, but
he says he has nothing whatsoever to do with the situation.

infornatio
your inquiries.

ineerely

VOTE; Correspondent desired’ inférmatiwn concerning
book "Flying Saucers Have Landed" by Desmond Leslie
George Adamski.

Tolson.

Ned OC gs Gomi

RECORDED-88
INDE XED-88

EX-112

wa. Jones

ayo wrens

WR &

v

