GRAY BARKER

$3.50

They Knew Too Much About
Flying Saucers
by GRAY BARKER

One by one, the leading figures among flying
saucer researchers, who have challenged the govern-
ment denial that saucers come from outer space, have
been silenced.

Outwardly, nothing seems to have happened to
these men. They are still alive, still living where they
used to. But they no longer publish saucer research
material and they will not talk about saucers or why
they no longer will speak of them.

Three men in dark suits have visited these saucer
researchers. Nobody knows what they said, but it was
enough to reduce their hearers to silence.

Perhaps the silenced men know who the three
dark-clad visitors are, but they won't talk about this
either. And nobody else seems to know who these
men are. They might be government agents, they
might even be men from outer space, or they might
have muscled into a situation fraught with many
possibilities.

This is part of the true story told by an otherwise
prosaic and successful Clarksburg, West Virginia,
business man, Gray Barker, whose busy film booking
and buying agency in Clarksburg News Building
scarcely seems to be the place to give forth this story
stranger than that of any of the pictures that Mr.
Barker is booking.

Mr. Barker never was interested in flying saucers
until 1952 when one of the most astonishing ones
allegedly landed near his home in West Virginia and
he investigated the story and found the shaken and
fearful eye witnesses convincing enough to go on
with further investigations.

Then, after several years of close contact with the
leading men in the field, he found them suddenly
silenced, one by one.

Who they are, what they were doing when they
were silenced, Mr. Barker's astonishing theories of
what they had discovered that impelled others to
silence them, is told in his book.

H. G. Rhawn, publisher and owner of the daily
Clarksburg News, the author's home town paper, has
authorized University Books to publish a letter from
him which, while carefully disclaiming any credence
in flying saucers, concludes that when so sober and
successful a business man as Mr. Barker finds the
field important enough, flying saucers deserve serious
investigation.

They Knew Too Much About Flying Saucers is a

(continued on back flap)
JACKET BY GROPPER ASSOCIATES, INC.

Buffington Studios
GRAY BARKER
(continued from front flap)

behind-the-scenes chronicle of civilian saucer research.
It is an immensely readable book. We suggest you do
not pick it up if you have work to do, for you will
be unable to put it down until you reach the amazing
climax.

Mr. Barker tells the story in such a straightforward
and documentary manner that the reader's first mo-
ment of incredulity will give way to conviction as he
is acquainted, page-by-page, with the terrifying in-
side facts.

A six-footer, handsome, and with a warm, in-
fectious laugh, Mr. Barker retains in his voice just a
trace of the accent of the West Virginia farming
country where he grew up, somewhat belying the rich
and varied career he has crammed into his thirty
years. He has been head of an English department in
a Maryland school system, an audio-visual education
consultant for a large school supplier, theatre man-
ager and motion picture projection technician. Begun
as a hobby, saucer research has taken more and more
of his time as he has realized the stark reality behind
the mystery.

Finding time for his literary career between details
of operating his business, he publishes The Saucerian,
a flying saucer periodical, and contributes to educa-
tional journals and motion picture technical magazines.

UNIVERSITY BOOKS, INC.
404 Fourth Avenue e New York 16, N. Y

GRAY BARKER

UNIVERSITY
BOOKS

