Office Memo: .dum + owrrep s1

TO

wn FROM

SUBJECT:

Director, FBI DATE: September 4, 1947
(a)

SAC, San Francisco UY AIRMAIL
SPECIAL DELIVERY

REPORTS of- FLYING DISCs

Enclosed is a copy of a letter dated August 25, 1947, with
attachment fran Lt. Col, DONALD L. SPRINGER of A~2, Hamilton Field,
California. Even though Col. SPRINGER feels that Mr. JOHNSON may
have read some of his claims in a newspaper, Col. SPRINGER believes
that Mr, F. MX JOHNSON should be interviewed in this matter.

In accordance with Bureau Bulletin No. 42, dated July 30,
1947, Portland is requested to exhaustively interview Mr. F. M,
JOHNSON, 106 N.W. First Ave., Portland, Oregon, regarding his
alleged sighting of a "flying disc" on June 24, 1947. Copies of
the result of this interview should be furnished the San Francisco
Field Office for distribution to the 6th Army Intelligence,

DWK:MR
Encls. 2
62-2938

cc Portland (Incls. 4) — AMSD

HEA

Office of

Hamilton Field, California

Special A

gent in Charge, FBI, U, S
Federal Office Building

S. Department of Justice,
» Room 422, Sen Francisco, Calif.

le: The attached true copy of a letter from Mr

« Fe Me Job

was received by this officer 22 August 1947.
2. Your attention is invited to the similerity between Arnold's

early report and is gentleman's report, A possibility exists that

Mre Johnson might ve reed some of this'in the newspapers when Arnold
was publicized re this matters

5. This headquarters does not intend to investigate this incident.
Tt is requested thet a result of any interview you may make be furnished
this feadquarters.

DONALD L. SPRINGER

ne MW Lt. Colonel, Gs¢

utr fr F.M, Johnson AG of S, A-2
(True Cy)

TAM DID T
CONFIDENT:

Lte Col. Donald L.
Saw in

in re

Sire
cle

greater

were stan

TRUE COPY:

Li Colonel, G8¢/

AC of 8, A-2

ON, August 20th

1947

DENTPIAI

RIDT
ZiINivL

DDIViiAL,

ards to
any basis

istri

ure

ot

t
ou

pass

STANRARD FORM NO. 64

SUBJECT:

6

Office: Men dum * UNITED § GOVERNMENT

Director, FBI DATE: September 4, 1937
Atten: Assistant Director D. M. LADD
SAC, San Francisco

AIRMAIL

Enclosed for your information are copies of two letters
from Lt. Col. DONALD L. SPRINGER of A~2, Hamilton Field, California,
dated August 27, 1947, with attachments reporting the sighting of
"flying discs" on Guam, and result of A-2 investigation at Tacoma
and Kelso, Washington.

DWK: MR
62-2938

anemia
" ‘ SY CECDE-
\ - @ SECRE rT a

HEADQUARTERS FOURTH AIR FORCE
Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff, A=2
Intelligence
Hamilton Field, California

27 August 1947

5/1208- *
335. I

62-2937 :
SUBJECT: Re Flying Disc.

TOs Special Agent in Charge, FBI, U. S. Department of Justice,
Federal Office Suilding, Room 422, San Francisco, California. {
X

V

1. Following is extract from the Weekly Intelligence Summary,
Air Transport Command, Washington 25, D. C., dated 20 August 1947,
Copy Nos 120, Article I, Pg ls

|

j

|

f

|

| “PLYING OBJECTS IN GUAM: Unidentified flying objects have

boon observed by three Americen enlisted men of the 147th Air=

| ways and Air Communications Service Squadron at Harmon Field,
Guem, The men report that at 1040 hours on 14 August 1947 the
‘two objects, which they describe as small, crescent shaped and
traveling at a speed twice that of a fichter plane, passed over

f "i them on « zig-zag course in a westerly direction at an

—— mate altitude of twelve hundred feet. The objects dis

bene ‘Aimto clouds and a few seconds later a similar object possibly

one of those previously observed, emerged from the clouds and

proceeded west. No further details have been reported."

2- Yor your information.

L. SPRIM
Lt. Colonel, GSC
: AC of S, Aw?

ie)
dy)
(
50
thy
“4

HEADQUARTERS FOURTH AIR FORCE
Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff, A-2
Intelligence
Hamilton Field, California

4APDA 27 August 1947
333 65/1208-1

JECT: Investigation of Flying Dise.

Special Agent in Charge, FBI, U. S, Department of Justice,
Federal Office Building, Room 422, San Francisco, Californie.

Attached summary forwarded for your information.

DONALD L. SPRINGER
1 Incl: te Colonel, GSC
Summary of Information. AC of S, Aq?

AUG 30 1947

SAN FRANCISCC
ROUTED 10 s

POURTH AIR FORCE
t Chief of Steff, A-'
gence

lamilton ld, California

4AFDA 27 August 1947
333 5/1208-1

SUBJECT: Investigation of Flying Disc.

Special Agent in Charge, FBI, U. S. Department of Justice, .
Seattle, Washington.

Attached summary forwarded for your information,

1 Incl: DONALD L. SPRINGER
Lt. Colonel, GSC

Summary L
AC of 8, Ae?

ascue SERVICE
CHMENT 8 (62d AAF 50)
MeChord Field, Tacoma, “ashington

4 August 1947
SUBJECT2 Pinal Mission Report
TOs Commanding Officer

Air Rescue Service
WaeDill Field, Florida

le MISSION NUMBER ThirtyeNine.

2- NATURE.

&- Ab 0400 PST, 1 August 47, ARMY FLIGHT SERVICE notified this
Getachnent that a plane had been seen to crash and burn thirteen (13) miles
south of KELIO, Washington (46°R'N, 122°55'W).

Se ACTION TAKEN

@e 1 Aug 47. At 04:50 PST, APS received information from Mrs

Ce Clark, local sheriff of KELSO, he, that the scene of the crash was
fifteen (18) to twenty (20) sithes east of KELSO in the vicinity ef GOBLE
CREBK. ‘The KELSO Chief of Police saw an aireraft fly low over the tow,
then crash and burn to the east. ‘The time was about 0256 PST, A check of
airoraft mown to be in the vicinity revealed that 5-25 71516 had departed

D FIELD at 0212 PST for HAMILTON PIELD, California. The weather was
reported as CPRs A full moon made visibility exceptionally goods. The
pilot's nome was CAPT. W. C. DAVIDSON; the plane carried three ($) additional -
persona. ‘The Base Operations Officer and Base PIO were notified. Thi¢e
detachment began organizing « ground party of base personne] to supplement
that being formed by the KELSO Chief of Police. At 0500 PST information
was received from KELSO by APS that ground fog in the valleys st seene
of the crash was preventing a ground party from locating % plane. Since
no communication had been received from 8-25 #1316, it was umed thet it
was the plane reported as crashed. ARS C47 was pre-flighted to treneport
the Arny ground party to KELSO but a check ef the field conditions there
deemed it advisable to use a smaller aircraft. Of the two Ceé5s available,
one belonging to APS wes unserviced after a night flights the other, belong-
ing to AACS, wus readied even though @ responsible officer of that organ-
ization was not present to euthorige the flight. Fog at KSLSO prevented
takewoff until 0700 PST. The ground party, led by CAPT. W. L. LITTRELL and
C. E » consisted of six men including a nedicel technician
end a photographer. At OG00 » the KELSO Chief of Police notified AFS
that a passenger of the crashed airplane wes in his office and had confirmed

Subjects Final Mission Report” 4 August 1947

The belief that the crash was that of the unreported 3-25, The Passenger,
TAPF, of FT. LAWTON, SEATTLE, was uninjured, but reported that
chief, T/Sgte Ne De MATHEWS, was at a farm house near the scene of
the orash and was injured. Sgte TAFF then led en ambulance to Sgt. MATHEWS
who was subsequently taken to @ local hospital, At 0610 PST an attempt
was made to telephone Sq, 3 at HAMILTON FIELD but no answer was received;
however, it was mown that HAMILTON APS was aware of the incident and
would notify Sq. 8. At 0700 PST Capt. LITTRELL departed in a Ce46 for
At O745 PST Sq B wae contacted by phone end given a flash report.
PST CAPT LITTRELL phoned and informed that he had placed CAPTAIN
© in charge of Army personnel proceeding te the seene of the crash.
No serial search necessary sa civiliens in the area knew tho exact
location of the erash and had reported finding one (1) body in the wreokkge.
CAPT. LITTRELL prepared to fly Sgt'’s TAFF and MATHEWS to MCCHORD FPIRLD a
for medical attention, arriving at 0945 PST. The survivors steted that |
they believed neither the pilot nor co-pilot has parachuted from the
planes. ‘The cause of the incident was at thie time determined to be a fire
in the left engine, CAPT LITTRELL was informed by Sgt. TAFF that he
believed classified documents had been aboard the planes CAPT FORSBERG
was instructed to take necessary precautions. An anbulance met the plane
at MCCHORD FISLD carrying the two survivors and took thom to the hospital.
Interrogation revealed that the left engine had onught fire in the power
section and flames and smoke had spread to the flight deck almost imned-
lately. The crew chief, MATHERS, ieted TAFY in attaching his chest
pack and TAPP abandoned the plane at an estimated altitude of 10,000 ft
(thie fact Le doubted tut ta not considered necessarily rolevant)«
UATHEWS helped the pilot and co-pilot attach their chest packs (211 per=
sonnel had boon wearing the harness) and as he left the plane wos aware that
the co-pilot wan preparing to follow. The pilot had started to leave and,
to the best recollection of MATHEWS, was partially stending and holding
the control wheel with his left hand. MATHEW'S statenents indicate that
proper emergency procedures had been performed but that the flames had en-
veloped the «ntire left side almost immediately. TAPF stated that, because
of the full moon and good visibility, he MATHEWS leave the plane and
was able to follow the plane to the ground and that he saw no one else
bail out. The ship was enveloped in flames and was beginning to fell apart
vefore hitting the ground where it exploded and burned about one (1) mile
from where he, TAFF, landed. le lit in a tree, end not knowing how to
release his parachute of the quick-detachable tind, cut himself loose frou
the herness with hie pocket knife. Se kicked end struggled and eventually
jumped to the ground, receiving e jolt on impact but was unable to cuess
how far he hed fallen. He thon followed a cow path for an estimated two
(2) miles to a farm house, arriving efter MATHEWS, Moanwhile, as MATHERS
eleared the plane he turned and sew the plane strike the ground, explede
and burne Just before or just at the time of impact he saw an object
afire thrown clear of the plane but did not know whether it wes « person
or part of the planee MATHEWS also Lit and after freeing himself
from his harness, fell to the ground wh i s back. te lost
conselousness and on recovering went to the burning piene, about fifty

DIDO TrAT
PTD tA

ee es

: Final Mission Repers * 4 Auguet 1947
-
(60) yards away. Flares were going off and he thought best to leave the
Scene, He heard a stream nearby end followed it until he came to a house and
roused the oceupantss Seon TAFF arrived at the same house and, being un-
injured, was driven into towne. Then he led an anbulance to effect transporta-
tion of MATHEWS to a hospitale Meanwhile, civilians r ned the seene of
the erash where they found one body. At 0930 PST, a message from Sq 3
informed that top sseret material was in the navigators kit and to request
fommanding Officer MCCHI to expedite al1 available information to
Commanding Officer BAMIL' FIELD. Meanwhile, CAPT PORSSERG and four (4)
enlisted men departed KELSO at 0830 PST for of the crash. ‘hoy were
transported by the * {INGTON STATE POLICE who knew the exact locetion of
the plane (46°09'N + 122043'W). ‘The ground party determined upon arrival
16 soene, that two (2) bodies were in the wreckage. Indications led to
belief thet the co-pilot was afire when he left the plane an instant ‘
before impact. Th. pilot's ‘ins were found in the wreckages Pree
liminary investigation by RSBERG disclosed the planes left wing
about one hundred twontyefive “(125) yards from the widely scattered port-
tions of the planes The loft wing was intact and hed spperently torn
off just outboard of the left engine before impact. The forward portion
of the wing stub was melted but the rear two thirds indicated thet it had
ripped loose from the inboard seetion of the wing. The wing leading edge
was undamaged, The naVigation and landing 1 8 were unbroken. The
aileron was undamaged but the flap section was crushed, leading to the
belief that the wing struck the teil section. From these indicetions
it 1s believed the wing ripped from the airplane just after MATHENS
abandoned the pla: The resulting spin thus prevented the remmining
erew members from bailing out although the co-pilot may heve been in the
hateh, A few civilians were in the area when CAPT FORSDERG arrived
and he took preosutions to prevent them from disturbing the wreckage.
At 1157 PST CAPT LITTRELL flew CAPT RICH, M. C., to KEELSO, An ambulance
a@igpatched from MOCHORD PIELD, met them at KELSO, and was led to the ene
of the erash by the STATE POLICE. The bodies were recovered and trans-
ported in the azbulance to } D PIBLD. CAPT LITTRELL returned to
MCCHORD FIELD where camping equipment was prepared to be drepped to the
ground party. CAPT LITTRELL, made a successful drop at dusk by sighting
on 8 signal fire. The ground party set up camp at the wreckage scene to
set as guard and to investigete further the following dey. They were
relieved of responsibility of «11 recovered documents by a CIC agent who
had arrived about 1600 PST.

4

bs 2 Aug 47_ The ground party remained at the scene of the crash
pending official securing of the incident. No serial activity.

@e S Aug 476 MOCHORD LD Operations Officer departed at 1000
PST to investigate the accident and to relieve CAPT FORSBARG, who returned
et 1600 Incident closede

sorties flown

Army aireratt

As Cooperation reosived from s11 civiliter r s concerned
was complete and excellent.

otvoRraphs

CRALQUARTARS FOURTH AIR FORCE @

Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff, A-2
Intellisense

ASON FOR INVESTIGATION: 2veetigation initiated at the request of Air Defense
Coumninds reference ltr lig ADC, dtd 7 Jul 47, file DSS3.5ID, subj: Investigation of
Flying Dieses

SYWOPSISs

On SL duly 47, ire Arnold, Aviation “ditor of the Idaho veily Steteaman, tele-
phoned Lie Grown requesting he return te Tacoma because Arnold believed he had some
very vitel information en the flying disce

Lie Srown end Capt. Devidson interviewed a Ure Fred Le Crigman and a Yr. llarold
Ae Dahl, slong with Capt. Smith of the United Air Lines, and Mrs Arnold, at the Wine
throp Hotel in facom, “ashington, on the nicht of 31 July 1947.

The summary ef their interrogation and findings was related te Major Sender,
Public Information Officer, MeChord Field, by lire Arnold and Capt.e Smithe Major
Sander retold the results ef the investigetion to thie officer from his notes.

ire Dahl and Mir. Criaman were net available for interview while this officer
was in that area, althoush every effort was meade to contact theme

Further investigation of thie particular incident wes left with Mre Srady,
Sesident Agent, FBI, Tacoma, Washing-tone

it was epperent from newspaper clippings, telephone calls to thie officer, and
conversations with tsjor Sander, that a United Press correspondent, of the Tacoma
Times, was instrumental in keeping this case alive. This officer and Major Sender,
aithough quoted many times in the press, did not discuss this matter with the press
during the period of this report.

The anonymous mystery caller in Tecoma could possibly be Mrs. Crigmans

DIsTRIBUTION
AAP

ADC 2
Ge2 6th Army | ate i caaae asc
PSI, Seattle PMs mes Ss OMOEA

POI, San Franeisco 1

+nF-Fites r yan AUG 30 1947

SAN FRASNOISCKr
W.D., P.M. G. Form No. 110 } ROUTED ~~

Ci-R1 Report a " 6

le uring the afterncen of 31 duly 47, Mire Arnold, Aviation Séiter of the
idehe Daily Statesmen, telephoned Lt Srown, CIC Sub=Detachment Commander at tieade
Fourth Air Fores, and stated in eubstance: That he, Arnold, and Capt Geith
had errived in Tacoma to investigate the purported flying dise explosion on @ sure
face craft on 21 dume 47, This investigation was requested and financed by @ Ure
w+ Palmer of the Venture Prees, 305 Studie Bldgs, 1718 “hermen Avenue, “Svenston,
Tilinocis.

AGENT*S WOTEs See Enclosure 1 and Inclosure 2. The signatare to Inclosure 2, Ure
Gave Johneon, is that of the editor of the Idaho Deily Statessane “re dolmson is «
former Arey Air Porece officer end from ali indications ie a very patriotic American.
On the reesipt of Inelosure 2 at Seadquarters Fourth Air Force, thia officer requested
the San Praneisoo FRl Office te chesk the Chicago FRI Offies for Re Ae Palmer and the
Venture Preas, the return enewer, by telephone, was te the effeot that the Shieags
indices of the PRI, the Chicago Police, and Sredit Sureau head no record on Re Ae
Pelser or the Venture reas.

Ze L& Grown and Capt Savidson arrived at MeTherd Field during the afternoon
of 31 daly 47¢ They changed from their wuiforms to civilian elothing in the aircraft
and, on being queried by Operations as to why they desired transportation te Tacoma,
they replied they were to aake a speeches

AGENTS NOPMke Thie wee in compliance with par 4, itr fr tg AG, Pile 0555.61),
7 dal 47, gubje Investigation of flying “isce

Aeoording to Major George Sander, Public information Officer, Sechord Field, The
Tacom: Times received an anonysous telephone ceil that Arnold and Gaith were present
in the “inthrop “etel for the purpose of conducting an investigation on the fiying
diese. The Tacome Times shecked and found thie te be true, moh to Arnold's end Snith's
eurpriees % Srown end Gapt Devidson did interview 4. Sarold 45 Uehl, Mrs Fred Le
Crieman, in @ hotel room in the Winthrop Notel, Teacoram, “ashe, in the presence of

tr. Arnold and SCnpt Gmithe If notes were teken of this conversation, they were de-
stroyed in the eircreft accident. re Arnold stated to “a jor Jander that Lt Srown
ebteined from Yr. Gehl end Mee Crigman semples of on unidentified substence thet were
identical to those appearing in Inclesures 3 to 7. ‘the samples pictured in Inelosures
& to 7 wore taken by Ure Arnold from the seme box thet Dahl and Criewan offered le
Grown and from whieh he obtained his samples. %/Sgt Matthews, Grew Chief on the
wreeked aircraft, upon being interrogated by thie officer, stated that he placed «
heavy cardboard carten in the rear comparteent of the 25 thet erashede % did not
leek in the box nor heer any comments from 14 Grown or Capt Sevideon es to its cone
tantse yy.

S. ‘The following sammeriges what was roleated by Mre Arnold and Capt Smith to
Wajor Sander as to the substance of the interrogation by Lt Srown and Capt Davidsens
Theat on 21 dan 47 re Behl wes preceeding scuth of Maury Island in Mire Gricean'’s
beste Five flying diece came down out of the clouds ani circled siewly around the
vay, dropping te an estimated clevetion ef 600 feet. These disos appeared round and

CONFIDENTIAL

W.D.,P.M.G. Form No. 110

: : : -CONFIDENTFIAL-

flattened similar to @ deflated automobile inmmertube., ‘They were judged by Uahl to
be Gpproximately 100 feet across with a 25 foot opening in the center. The outer
age of the object had round portholes and the inner ring hed square windows or
portholes. The dises were silent and from hie viewpoint he could see no moans of
propalsions ne of these dises eppeared to falter end waver in the air, another of
these aforementioned five Gises drepped down close te the dise that appeared to
waver and bumped it, dumping “tons” of the stuff as pictured in inclosure & te 7
on his dont, knocking off the hendrail, horn, and generelly damaging the boat to
the extent of $200.00, and killing Dahl's dogs

AGEST*S HOTSs This officer, in the company of Mejor Sender, boarded the aforemene
tioned boat where it was docked in the Sacoun harbor on 6 Aug 47%» 4 hand rail was
miosing, bat the ares where the hand rail wes previously fastened had been painted
over with seversl conte of paint and wae oresked by the werthers The deck and roof
of the cabin was of a very thin construction and the eabin further had glass on the
front and oides,. 1% is thia officer's opinion thet if any of the objeote presented
by Behl a6 eauplees of the material dropped by the flying cise had hit this boat, it
would have certainly been necessary be replace the foredeck ani the cabin roof.
These two arene were very heavily coated with several esate of paint and had deep
weather oracka thet would take evveral seasons to aequires

Mre Uriaman, «ho owns the boat and eperates a shoreline water patrol for various
business firms, evidently visited the area at Heury Islend to check Dahl's story.
Be te supposed to heve stated that he found the aaterial that he presented to Lt
Brown and Capt Yevideen in a send pit near where the ineident was supposed to have
occurred. “hile he, Crigmn, was at the soene of the incident, a flying disc cane
out of the clouds and behaved in « cinilar wanmer es the ones previously described.

AGENT'S HOT: The witnessing on two ceensions, in broad daylight, of an object so
large and clearly visible within several miles of the olty ef Tacoma certeinky should
heave bewn eesn and reported on by other then Deh] and Crisman. A check was made of
the newapapers on and after 21 dume end no mention could be found of « systerious
object appearing over the Tecoma harbors

Mre Crigwan is supposed to have sent samples of the objects that he picked up in the
Maury Island sand pit to a friend of hie at the University of Chiceage for an analysis
reports te ia reported to have net reecived the enalysis reporte

AGENT*S WOLEe It te poesible that the tire B, A, Palmer, reference Inclosurs 1 snd 2,
sight have come eeress this ineident through the University of Chicagos

The interrogetion of bah) and Crisuan by LS Grown was completed shout sidnight on

E> 9 dary/h Auguste i Brows and Capt Sevidsen returned to SeCherd Micsld end prepared
for @ night flight to Samilton Field, the weather was clear with a bright meen
shining. They departed approxiwately 0200 hours and crashed at approximately 0230
hours on 2 August 1947.6 (See inclosure %).

%e On 6 August 47, thie officer, tx the company ef Wajor Sendery Metherd Field,
and Mee Sragy, resident agent, Tacome Fetiorsl Surenu of Investigation, attempted to

CONFIDENTIAL

W.D.,P.M.G. Form No. 110

CI-R1 Report é @

\ Fs “CONFIDENFIAL-

Contest elther Hre Dahl or Mire Grisman, without success, Capt Smith and Wr, Arnold
departed the fscome aren on 3 August 47, therefore, this officer did not have the
@pportunity of conversing with them directly.

AQENT*S WORKe A record cheek was made by telephone by “re Brady with the Seattle
Field Office, FRI, for records on Mre Criemmn and Ure Dehli. the sheok on re Crieman
was negative. The Seattle PSI indloss indicated thet @ Hareld ahh had been charged
with twe inaidente of iliege] weering of the uniform and one with theft of national
propertye 1% ould not be determined at the tine whether Sarold As Ushi, the eubject
in question, and Zereld Sshl of the FRI indiows, was once and the sande

Se Mrs Crieoan had indlested to Capt Gnith, Arneld, et al, that he was a
former fighter pilot end held ceamiesion se Captain in the Air Reserves

ANEUT*S te 6On & August 47, thie officer checked the records of the 400th AAP
QO(RT) and detersined that Fred lL, Crigmmn was regietered with thet Reserve Unit as
Captain, Serinl Bamber 0758951, with residences at 125 Woodland, Sacom, Machingtony,
Primry “0S 1064 and 1006. Im 1042 he was with the Criminal Investigation Mivisien,
State of Weohington, end previously had been en o1] teehnician with the Union Pacific
Railway. Crlesen extered the services in 1942 as an enlisted man and served as such
for seventoon months, In 1943 he was comeiesioned on graduation from flying sehool
and served a totel of teenty-nine monthes cheek ef the Tncome eity directory was
wade on Gerold A, Dahl, which indicated his home was at 3903 8. Gobs Sis, telephone:
Preetor 7117. Suciness address was listed es 235 Widdle “aterwayy telephone: Broade
wey 77336

RECOMMENDATION’

le That no further investigation be undertaken on this apecifie incident by
Apny Aly Foree persomel.

2e That in view of the reported statements by Mire Crianan, that consideration
be given te revoke his Air Seserve commiceion and flying status as an undesirable
and unreliable officer.

4 Incles
le Photogtat, ltr fr ReAsPaleorse
2e Photostat, telegram fr Dave Johnsons
Se to Te Photographs, Unidentified Substances
6» Pinal Miesion Report, Air Kessue Services

W.D.,P.M.G. Form No. 110

| LON ‘ % : i Ds,

® @ ‘

a .

VENTURE PRESS q

t

Jaly 22, 19}?

fia, Hig

6
| Mr. Kenneth Arnold, y
Zoise, Idaho

{
| Dear Mr. Arnold:

/ Quite obviously you have been ribbed so much you'd like to |

f forget the flying saucers--but I'd sure like to heave your
personal story, your photo, pio of your plane, etc, as I

| askea before. And you won't he made to look silly, because

| there's more to this than the rewspapers and the "experts*

|

|

have made of it.

Besides the article, I have another Propesition, You seem to
get around quite a bit, and if you can maks a trip to Tacome,
Washington at 6)1 feasible, I'd be willing to pay expenses
plus ® oice amount to make it worth your while.

I'a want you to see Mr. Herold As Dahl, P. 0. Box 154, Fera |
Will Station, Tacoma, and Mr. Fred Le Crisman, osner of the j
Tacoma Harbor Patrol, Inc. Dahl, and two other seamen, on a |
patrol near Murry Island, off Tacoma, saw six discs, one in |
trouble, witnessed an explosion, saw falling stuff which f
smashed their wheelhouse end searchlight snd lended on the |
veach, They sent me samples whioh Chicago U has failed to }
analyze. I want a picture of the beach and the stuff that 13
landed there (about twenty tons, they said). And I want \
i somebody who'll get the trath, to find out if these doys are }
| on the up and upe You could do thet. I hope you will. If

ugreeable, please write and perhaps we oan telk business. Fal
I think you'd like to prove this thing toos

Anyway, I still wnt that article!

Sincerely yours,

|
Re A Palner _
|
|

WESTERN WESTERN
UNION UNION

WESTERN
UNION

q

, mn

WuA41 PD a ;
BOISE IDA JULY 29 1947 255P “s

LT FRANK M BROWN, A=2 (RPT A=2)

OFFICE 4TH AIRFORCE HAMILTON FIELD CALIF.
VENTURE PRESS 305 STUDIO BLDG 1718 SHERMAN AVE EVANSTON ILL. RA
PALMER. SENT ARNOLD $200 TO GO TO TACOMA TO INVESTIGATE FLYING
DISC REPORT THERE. SUGGEST THIS OUT OF LINE FOR PRESENT PUBLIC
INTEREST IN STORY AND BELIEVE:AS | SUGGESTED ON YOUR VISIT HERE
VENTURE PRESS SHOULD BE CHECKED

DAVE JOHNSON

305 1718 $200
308P

q

e UNITED Sila... +sOVERNMENT

DATE: T=29-47 y,

SUBJECT: METAL FRAGMENTS ‘Ol SERVED AT WEST RINDGE, NEW HAMPSHIRE, JULY 7, 1947
SECURITY MATTER (X|

Reference is made to Boston teletype to the Bureau dated July 18, 1947,

Dean John M. Bunker, the original informant, has advised that a spectographic
examination has been completed of the metal pertioles referred to. They were
determined to be of ordinary cast iron which had been subjected to a very
high degree of heat, The heat caused scales to be formed on the cast iron
which were originally thought to be of some metallic alloy.

The scientist examining the partioles concluded that if they had come through
the air from any great altitude in as small pieces as they were found then
most of the hoat would have been taken from them by the time they reached

the ground end fires would not have resulted, It is noted they landed
approximately 700 feet from a railroad track and inquiries were conducted by
MIT to determine whether or not the particles could have been originally a
part of a liner in a smoke stack or some other part of the steam engine, These
inquiries resulted in positive information that the particles did not come from
a train or locomotive. Measurements of the four pieces examined revealed

that they had most likely been originally all part of one hollow cylinder,
eight inches in diameter and three sixteenths of an inch in thickness, It

was felt that ono piece falling from a great height would have still retained
@ good part of its heat and probably would have smashed when it hit the ground.

A scientist, whom Yean Bunker did not identify by name, recalled that cast
iron oylinders of similar measurements had been used in New Mexico on
research work on a guided missile project. However, this unidentified scientist
not so conolude to the exclusion of all other possibilities,

O Tr. INPQU
I eA iateret ting to note that the examination at MIT was actually conducted

(b) (7)(D) Who furnished the Boston Office with an informal report similar .,
in all major details to that supplied by Yean Bunker above, The men at MIT af
are gathering through friends all additional pecan of the original oyli: Pe
available, These will be turned over to the Yoston Office, No furthe: z
examination is being conducted by MIT and no effort is ra el
reoonstruot the original cylinder, = "

SANDY RD

Unless advised to the contrary by August 15, 1947 the Boston Office will
eeerey, these specimens, In the interim they will be transmitted to the
ureau on specifie Bureau instructions, £L f 94. m fe 4

DESTROYED

Novisise4  FX-64

(b) (7(D)

It is noted that the original 4oston teletype reflected that this inquiry

was being treated as “secret” matter at MIT. (b)(7)(D) has advised that
the comparatively small number of research scientists at MIT during the summer
are all cognizant of the incident and the results of the research, However,
no publicity has been given and it is not anticipated that any will result.
The Sureau's interest is not known to the scientists at MIT. There has been
no speculation that a guided missile originating in a foreign land landed

in New Hampshire,

As indicated above, unless the Bureau requests specifically further investigative
action, this case is being closed in the Boston Office,

BSG:md
100-20698

FBI BUTTE 8-15-47 5-45 PM
RECTOR, FBI URGENT

FLYING DISCS. ON INSTANT DATE A. CURIE OF TWIN FALLS, oandoys ag

INFORMED LOCAL NEWSPAPER THAT COMMUNITY THAT AT ONE PM ON ea. &
LAST, AUGUST THIRTEEN, HE AND TWO SONS BILLIE, AGE TEN, KEITH, APRKK
AGE EIGHT, SAW AN OBJECT NINE MILES NORTHWEST OF TWIN FALLS, RE-
SEMBLING FLYING DISC. URIE STATED THIS OBJECT WAS PROCEEDING @MxX
DOWN SALMON RIVER AT TERRIFIC SPEED ESTIMATED BY HIM AT ONE THOUSAND
MILES PER HOUR. URIE AND SONS DESCRIBED OBJECT TO NEWSPAPERS AS
TWENTY FEET LONG, TEN FEET WIDE AND TEN FEET THICK, LIGHT SKY BLUE
IN COLOR AND ALSO OBSERVED FLAMES EMANATING FROM SIDES OF OBJECT.
AT TIME URIE AND SONS SAW OBJECT THEY ALL HEARD LOUD SWISH WHEN
OBJECT DISAPPEARED FRIM SIGHT. CURRENT EFFORTS BEING MADE TO INTER-
VIEW URIE AND SONS PURSUANT TO BUREAU BULLETIN FORTY TWO, SUB DIVISION
B, DATED JULY THIRTY NINETEEN FORTY SEVEN. BUREAU WILL pe PROMPTLY |
AND FULLY INFORMED OF ALL PERTINENT DEVELOPMENTS. : jal is
BANISTER

PLS ACK AND HOLD =) Ae ¢ Oy. |

257
7-48 PM OK FBI WA BW

uynoas, WN8ALS

yagau

STANDARD YEORM NO. 64

‘Ofkee Men bd Aum + UNITED ‘ GOVERNMENT

TO. aes The Director DATE: August 1y¢ 1947

FROM : Mr. D. M. Ladd
SUBJECT:

In connection with your request to be advised as to the facts

concerning newspaper reports of flying discs in the Portland area and the

reported conference of army offici in Portland concerning flying discs,

the Portland Office has advised that Leaveritt G. Richards, aviation

editor of the. "Oregonian," has stated that Captain Willian LADavidson

and Lieutenant Frank } ‘own of the Fourth AAF Headquarters, San Francisco,

were in Portland on July 27, 197. While in Portland they interviewed Dick
“\rankin, an experienced pilot, who had reported that he observed, on June Ih,

a formation of ten flying discs over Bakersfield, California. Richards added

that Davidson and Brown had also inte wed the following four experienced

pilots who were among the first.to report seeing discs, KennetkXirnold, businessman

from Boise, Idaho; Captain E. Ixs mith, a co-pilot; Ralpb/Stevens, United Airlines

and DaveXJohnson, aviation editor, Idaho"Statesman." In order to determine the

purpose of these interviews Richards contacted Major General Twining of Wright Field,

Ohio, and from him gained the impression that the AAF instituted this investigation

to wash out the disc reports since they are definitely not of AAF origin.

On F. y, August 1, the plane in which AAF investigators, Captain
Davidson and Lieutenant Brown, were flying, crashed at Kelso, Washington and both
re killed. The wreckage was screened by AAF Intelligence from McChord Field.
The "Tacoma News Tribune" and through them the United Press put out a story that
the plane was carrying parts of a dise which had struck a boat owned by Harold
Dahl and Fred Chrisman. It has also been inferred that this plane was sabotaged
to prevent these disc parts from being examined.

STATUS

Investigation by the Bureau has reflected that this plane was definitely
not carrying parts of a disc and there appears to be no substantiation of a sabotage
charges

For your further information there is attached a blind memorandum setting
forth in more detail the results of the investigation surrounding the above plane
crash. No further inquiry is being made in this matter.

Air Force Intelligence has been advised of the results of our investi-

rere

&

COPIES DESTROYED
270 NOV 18 1964

2511sar 40 1d30-S'y

i
ANVI~O3A199 34

August 14, 197

G DISCS

The "Tacoma News Tribune" and through them the United Press put out
a story that an am lane which was allegedly carrying parts of a disc which
had struck a boat owned by Harold Dahl and Fred Chrisman had crashed on August
1, 1947, killing two Air Force Intelligence officers who were interviewing
persons who were alleged to have seen flying discs.

Harold A. Dahl and Fred ¢ m interviewed by Bureau Agents,
advised in a signed statement on August ie 1947, that in the early part of June,
197, they picked up some strange rock formations from a gravel pit on Mauri
Island, Washington. They sent a cigar box of these formations to one Ray Palmer,
editor of the Venture magazine in Evanston, Illinois and also editor of the
Fantasy magazine in Chicago, Illinois. According to them they requested Palmer
to make only a chemical analysis of the rock formations. Palmer then wrote
asking for additional samples stati: been unable to analyze the material.
Dahl and Chrisman r ked that a few i ter the flying disc stories appeared

during the latter part of June, Palmer contacted them by telephone saying he would
pay for an exclusive story if the materials they had sent him were fragments of
a flying disc. Dahl said he wrote Palmer a letter in ch he represented the
material as being a part of a flying disc, and both Dahl and Chrisman admitted
that this statement was entirely false.

Dahl and Chrisman then received a call f one Kenneth Arnold of

Boise, Idaho who requested them to meet him at the Winthrop Hotel in Tacoma on
July 31, 1947. According to m Arnold called in army intelligence officers
from Hamilton Field, California and one Captain Emil H. Smith of United Airlines
of Seattle, Washington to attend this meeting. Dahl and Chrisman maintained
they told the intelligence officers Captain Davidson, Lieutenant Brown, Kenneth
Arnold and Emil H. Smith exactly how they got the rock formations and that they
had no connection with any flying discs. Dahl and Chrisman stated that they then
furnished some of the rock formation to the intelligence officers as samples.

Captain Davidson and Lieutenant Brown left Tacoma, Washington in a B-25
to return to Hamilton Field, California about 2:30 A.M. August 1, 197, and were
killed when their plane cras| at Kelso, Washington, after the left engine
burned out an exhaust stack ch in turn caught the left wing on fire which caused
it to break off. The crew chief and each officer parachuted to safety.

Ernie Vogel, an Associated Press wireman at Tacoma advised that two or
three days after the flying disc story started he contacted Dahl to check the story

COPIES DESTROYED
270 NOV 18 1964

that the Seattle Post-Intelligencer had received from the Fire Chief at
Harbor, Washington, to the effect that Dahl had some flying disc fragments.
At this time Dahl admitted to Vogel that the entire story was false.
Relative to Arnold, Dahl and Chrisman stated that he was paid by
Ray Palmer of the Fantasy magazine and possiblg the Boise "Statesman! to cone
to Tacoma and obtain a story from them regarding the flying disc fragments.

On July 31 and August 1, a total of five anonymous calls were
received by a Tacoma Times reporter and the United Press Wireman at Tacoma
iving information regarding the meeting at the Winthrop Hotel over the disc
ragments and stating that the B-25 had been shot down or sabotaged which
killed Captain Davidson and Lieutenant Brown, inferring that this was done
because the intelligence officers were carrying disc fragments in their plane.

Dahl and Chrisman stated that these calls could only have come from
hemselves, Arnold or Smith, who, they stated, had a friend on the Chicago
Times and was possibly selling the story to the Chicago Times through this
friend. Dahl and Chrisman denied making these calls.

Smith, upon interview, stated that reporter Lantz of the Tacom:
Times and Morello of the United Press office in Tacoma had informed him that
Arnold had several anonymous calls and from the accuracy of the information
transmitted Smith believes they were made by either Dahl or Chrisman.

Federal Pireau of Inuestigah

United States Department of Justice
ington

» 1947

ton on A

atrolling in his boat nea

fluttere

ROLD DAHL wrote

fantasti

2saphed
ID, Boi
i 3 ) 1ad previously made a contract for
a story j ep ing A f come to Tacoma. and check thi Lory, ab.
related by F I E -

J oma, hington July 30, 1947 and
is room 502, Winthrop Hotel, Tacome shington. D
to attend t meeting in.2 H, United
also reported i

this meeting. | : NOLD, Captain EMIL 3 D HAROLD
DAHL, Captain DA ) Lieutenant ) A A-2 Intellig ence from
Hamilton Field, Ca all met in (OLD''s: room at various ves during
the afternoon and even: July 31, 1947.and discussed the flying disc

story as. related by CE AN and DAHL. The Army Intelligence Officers, Captain
DAVIDSON and Lieutenant B I, left about 2:00 A.M. the morning of August 1,
1947 to, return to Hamilton California for Air Force Day in a B-25-and
were carrying some of the reported disc fragments, The left engine on the
B-25 burned an exhaust stack which in turn caught the left wing afire, the
wing Bae quently breaking off and tearing off the tail. The B-25 crashed,
killing Captain DAVIDSON and Lieutenant BRON. However, the Crew Chief and

a hitelishi ker parachuted to safety. Intelligence Officers at McChord Field,
Washington advised there was no indication of any sabotage. The plane crashed
at Kelso, Washington approximately 2:50 A. M, August 1, 1947.

Five ‘anonymous calls were received by a reporter, Tacoma

Times, and the United Press Wireman, Tacoma, between 11:30 A. M., July 31, 1947
and 5:30 P, M., August 2, 1947. The first call was to a Tacoma Times reporter
approximately 11: A. M., July 31, in which the caller stated that there was
a meeting taking place at that time in room 502 of the Winthrop Hotel concerning
the disc fragments found o: ury Island. The second call received between
11:00 A. M. and 12:00 noon; August 1, 1947-by the Tacoma es reporter in

ich the caller ad that moment a t i as taking place

ID's. room number 502, Winthrop Hotel; thet the B-25 which crashed was
dise. fra its that McChord Field officials had stated it was
shot down or: sabotaged. 1¢€ rd call was received Friday, August 1, 1947
at. 5:30 P. M. by the United Press "ireman, Tacoma, in which the. caller stated
that the B-25 ch crashed at Kelso, Washington was carrying flying disc
fragments and that the dead officers were Captain DAVIDSON and Lieutenant

J, A=2 Intelligence Officers at “amilton Field, ifornia., This call
was prior to the release of the dead officers' names by Army authorities and
ller indicated that when the names were released, it-would verify the
Lv nation he was furr shing was correct... The fourth phone call was received
t approxi eo), 5 Po M., Friday; Au the United Press Wirem
ich call the caller stated the BH25 Wi niteyshot down and.that if he

contacted Army Intelligence officers, th 2 i The fifth phone
r with
er had also
1d Tuesday
es Hee the dead Intelligence
er, tt
several articles
after inferring the 1 ad t rt n abotaged because of
‘act ee at it 5 ca i D. ad CR: have admitted
ER had no connection h any
to that effect which are being

August 19, 1947

herein, DAHL and CRISMAN deny, however, that they actually started
ise’ story and their actual part in the story, United Airlines pilot,
states that DAHL and CRISMAN on July 31, 1947, both related their
EP: flying dise fragment story. Information gathered would indicate that
the anonymous phone calls were possibly made by. FRED CRISMAN in order to build
up the flying disc story to the point where they could’ make a profitable sale
of the story to RAY PALMER, Ct ea Illinois. No facts have been developed
which would definitely prove that CRISMAN made se calls, However, from all
facts and information gathered, it ARS he is SS a the most likely to
have made the anonymous calls, The detailed interviews of the persons contac-
ted in regard to this flying dise story are being set out below,

The following investigation was conducted by Special Agent
DAVID A. MacCULLOCH at Tacoma, Washington on August 6, 7, 1947:

BL, Associated Press “ireman, Tacoma, Washington,
advised that in the early part of June, 1947 he was‘ requested by the Seattle
Pact Tnt.elligencer to check on a story which he was informed had been obtained
from the Fir larpe ashington. The story was supposed to have
originated wi PRE F « VOGEL stated that the story was to the effect
that DAHL, ile pabroliing in his boat near Maury Island, saw five or six
flying dises, one of which, fluttered toward’ the ground.and finally disintegrated.
Fragments of the disc were reported to have showered down on the boat of HAROLD
DAHL, ‘causing some damage and killing his dog. Mr. VOGEL stated that he went
to the home of HAROLD BAHL on 3903 North Gove, Tacoma, Washington to check with
him on this flying dise story. He stated that as best he could recall, this
was just a few days after the first flying disc stories had appeared in the paper
and was on @ Sunday evening. He believed it was the early part of June. He
stated that DAHL took him in the kitchen and proceeded to talk about this flying
disc story in low muffled tones. He stated that DAHL acted rather suspicious
and that shortly his wife came’ into the kitchen and was in a considerable rage,
telling DAHL to admit that the entire story was a plain fantasy which he had
dreamed up. He stated that after his wife told DAHL to admit the entire story
was false, that DAHL then admitted that there was nothing whatever to the story
and it was an entire hoax. VOGEL stated that in view of the enraged condition
of DAHL's.wife, he immediately left and reported to tnehgeattle Post Intelligencer
that. the entire story was a hoax and that they. should rint it in any way,
He further ‘stated. that he advised the Seattle Post Intelligencer that DAHL was
a mental case and that nothing which he had reported should be carried as far
as a news story. « VOGEL stated that since that time he had received repeated
requests from the Boise Statesman requesting information as to the flying disc
stories reportedly originatin, with FRED CRISMAN and HAROID DAHL, VOGEL stated
that he had never, in his experience, hi such pressure brought upon hin to
release. a news story and that he re ees advi potent the Boise Statesman that
the story of seeing the flying discs by DAHL and CRIS was a complete fabri-

Pee

August.19, 1947

cation and should be in no way, carried as a news story and refused to furnish
any information regarding these reports. He further stated that he advised
the Boise Statesman shortly before, or at the time K. ETH ARNOLD left Boi

to come to Tacoma to check on the flying disc storie 1 ‘
that ARNOLD should not ‘come as the entire story. was a hoax.

The Agee! ing information was obtained from F rape
4513 South. 7th, Tacoma, Washington, Proctor 8416, a rpporter for the
Times:

Lt we h limes pa whi irst issued a story
on August.2° and’ subse tome Stones intim A > Be2s ich crashed at
Kelso, hington on the early morning of ad be botaged or shot
down because of the fact that i Li ying dise fragmen’ LANTZ stated
that on Thursday, July 31, at 4 ii: $30 A, M. he received an anonymous
phone c 2 which the caller ted + y NOLD and Army Intelligence
officers were meeting in room 502 of the 1 Hinthrop Hotel to check on the flying
dise story from. wh: fragments were obtained on Maury Island. .LANTZ stated he

turned around to speak i and he picked phone again the
line was dead, e stated that the caller asked for Suppo TIE, a reporter

on the Tacoma, Tin who was out at the time of the call, ‘He, stated that BURT
McMURTIE called ARNOID at room 502 in the Winthrop, Hotel and was advised by
ARNOLD: that he could furnish no information as he was there: on a Government
mission... Li stated that on Friday,. A 1, between 11:00 A. M. and noon,
he received another phone call for B TH in which the anonymous caller
stated that he might have sone information for him. LANTZ asked the caller if
he was not the same party that had called the previous date and he said yes.

The caller then related that at that moment there was a big meeting in progress
in ARNOLD's room, 502, in the Winthrop Hotels that the. B-25 which crashed that
morning in Kelso was carrying flying disc fragments from California and that
McChord Field officials had stated the plane was sabotaged or shot down. The
caller then hung up after making sone statement to the effect that he was a
switchboard operator, LANTZ stated that. he went to the Winthrop Hotel on Friday
about noon and found that there was no male operator on duty. He stated he then
went to. room 502 and ARNOLD answered the door and that Captain EMIL J. SMITH,
United Airlines pilot, was on the phone. ‘LANTZ stated thet he heard SITH make
a statement to the effect that the information must be very strictly confidential,
He stated that there were one or two others in the room besides SMITH and ARNOLD,
but that he could not identify them. He stated that ARNOLD told him he could
mae no statement and that he had attempted to check the story with various people
on Maury Island with negative results. He stated that about 3:30 P. M., Friday,
he wrote a story regarding the mysterious informant and called ARNOLD at his
hotel room, stating that he had written thig-story and that ARNOLD had better
check it. He stated that he talked to RELLO, the United Press Wireman,
Tacoma, who advised that the story so mpflertio, LANTZ stated that about

5:30 P. M., Friday, August 1, an anofymous caller called TED MORRELLO, the

Sei

August.19, 1947
United Press Wireman, stating that Captain DAVIDSON and Lieutenant BR
were the Intelligence off: aes that. were killed in the crash. of the
that lians ‘and the sheriff had been kept away from the wreckag
Army guarding ite. He stated the anonymous caller then said that the names
had not i released yet by the Army and that this would verify his statements.
PAUL LA stated that the follo’ orning, Saturday, August 2, the Army
verified that the officers killed were Captain DAVIDSON and Lieutenant BROWN
and-two days later verified that they were Army Intelligence officers. LANTZ
stated that the anonymous caller again leter contacted TED MORRELLO, calling
him by that name, and at this time stated he did not call the Tacoma NEWS
Tribune or the Associated Press and denied calling PAUL LANTZ or BURT McMURTIE.
In this call the anonymous caller stated that, "Don't think I'm doing this for
you." He then asked if the story had been put .on-the wire and when MORRELLO
said yes, the caller stated, "We want this to get back to: New Jersey." The
caller further stated that the B-25 was shot down by a 20 m,m.. cannon and that
the marine plane which was recently found wrecked on the side of Mt. Rainier,
having been missing for Bevery month. ad also been shot downs The caller
stated to M that: he ir th a flyer named MORGAN’ with
United Airlines who, he stated? was with Captain SMITH when they were shot at
over Montana. The caller then stated, "T111 see you Tuesday... I'm going to
San Francisco." LANCE stated that he had checked with Captain EXMIL SMITH of
United Airlines who denied knowing any pilot by the name of MORGAN; denied
ever ing* flown over Monta LANTZ stated that MORRELLO received another
anonymous call in h the caller stated that would be sent to Wright
Field on Tuesday and that Saturday one of the men who found fragments of the
flying disc was to be flown to Alas} ‘ stated that in vi of the fact
that the ongny ion as’ to the Inte t -25 had been: as
rpished y th sronenes3 eee bseqt lybeen verified by the Army,
i disc fragments returning to
1 the plane -had..been
sabotas ed or sh v NTZ ie 8 on Sunday, August 3,
he contacted C in = RITH is home, West EF. urelhurst Drive,
Seattle at which time & en. any story out to the Post
Intelligencer at ptt nae stated t! tie had gotten a telegram to call a number
in Boise and when he called and found out it-was the Boise Statesman, he had
hung up. He stated that t 3¢ , contacted him, at which time
he admitted he had. seen the dise fr: at he did not take any of
H informed’ LANTZ that he had been with Major GEORGE
Officer from McChord Field, all afternoon until about
SMITH informed IANTZ that he had told the Army authorities every-
ing get h knew about the flying disc fragments story from the
ise, Idaho and he ‘had es Seattle, Washington.

NOLD's room at the Winth tel and that ¢ Y and DAHL had been in
he room Thursday afternoon. On Monday PAUL LANTZ stated that he called
\ROID DAHL who advised that if this were not used in the paper, he and FRED

= Sin

August 19, 1947

CRISMAN would see him after lunch, LANTZ stated that about noon DAHL and
CRISMAN contacted him at which time DAHL stated that he and his son had been
exploring a gravel pit on Maury Island and found -s strange rock formations.
He stated they picked up some of these samples and that. FRED CRISMAN later
saw them and they went back over to Maury 4sland at which time additional
samples were obtained and that CRISMAN sent these to a friend of his at the
University of “Chicago to have analyzed, They stated that they received a
report and that apparently this friend had asked a newpaperman to find out
where the rock formations were obtained.  CRISMAN and DAHL told LANTZ that
sometime after the first. flying disc story had appeared, they received a tele-
ean Press from Chicago wanting infommation on th flying
cane hae at no time i te ne
Captain EA,
interested 5 the rock formations and they d nied
TH and ARNOLD,

RRELLO, a United Press Wireman, Tacoma, Washington
substantially the me i i a obtained from PAUL LANTZ,
the Tacoma Times.reporter, regardi. he anonymous phone calls which he had
received, He stated furt that rst call he: received was on Friday,
August 1, at a 3 M.. At this time the caller stated. that the B-25
which crashed at. & Washington y carrying disc fragments and that the
two officers killed were Cap Lieutenant | officers with
Army A#2. Intelligence at Hamilton 1d é and that the fragments were top secret
material. He stated the caller indicated that when the Army released the names
of the dead officers it would verify that the information he was furnishing was
correct. MORRELLO s ed that: the second call he received at’ approximately
6:45 P. Friday, August 1 at which time the caller’stated that the B=25 was
definitely shot down and that if he contacted Army Intelligence A-2, the man
in charge would not deny it. BELLO. stated he thought the man said to con-
tact Colonel GUYS, but it was found out it was.Colonel GREGG who was in charge
of Army Intelligence A-2. The caller further stated that the Sheriff's Office
had been kept away from the crash and that’ no civilians had been allowed near
the Sea {0 LLO stated the third call he received at 5:30 P. M., August 2,
and that this time tt ted that one of the men who had been conferring
with Captain SM ¥ aken to Alaska that day. The caller
further stated aie the i h rom the air with a\20 mm. cannon;
the t BBS : Rainier had aie been shot down;
nd that :a
then they
shot at over 2 s ing f Francisco
would. be back Tue

PAUL LANTZ and TED 1
rt ‘to apt ork ti DO. Ot n his Panep as
seless and +) a d ques ng him he would

refuse to furnish any further infor

Special
Tacoma,

he B-25 and he was was being conducted by
Seattle Office. CRIS elated in a rambling story that he
a ions which he had forwarded to a friend
ve ately yzed and that eters in some
manner unknown to
ments of a flying disc.

viewed a
denied any knowledge of h he ‘rock formati ch they had picked up to
have alalyzed became connected with the flying disc stories. Both denied
making any statement to anyone + these rock formations were portions of a
It parent fron the start of the interview that DAHL and
mplete and true connection with the flying
disc. story. ed gi any definite information to what they said
or had done wh L to become involved in ng disc story, but
gave evasive answers and repeatedly stated that the: d nothing to do with it
were at a loss to understand how they became connected with the flying disc
After ‘consi ble questioning, tt t+ in the ‘early part of
i ch published
7 azine in Evanston, Illinois,
some rock formations whi kf Island. They stated they
sent these formations, ing P have them analyzed. hey stated that
later PAIMER kk fi pass advising he had failed to analyze
a DAHL stated they have never sent any additional samples
at the next they he arding the rock formations which they had sent
PALL Ss when he J AR D. ies: if the rock form one could
have com
could have c ma f. ying he nimedistely sat down and wrote
a letter to PAL h was in the latter part of June in which he stated
the material could e been portions of a flying disc. ‘DAHL claimed that he
thought he told PAIMER over the phone something about being in his boat when
he obtained these rock fo: ions, but stated could not recall what he had
AIMER and claimed that he passed the. whole thing off as a joke,

iL were questioned at length in an attempt to obtain specific
aPeane ion as to é w had done with regard to the rock forma-
tions. How ever, éach stated that the only thing. they had done was tell RAY PAIMER
the formations could have come from a f ng des in view of the fact it iupeneee
‘that's what he wanted them to say", No definite information could be obtained
from either DAHL or CRISMAN as to what each specifically had done to start the
flying dise story.

The signed statenént which was obtained from CRISMAN and

<s6he!

August 19, 1947
DAHL 1 in<whi hey i rock formations had no’ connection with
any fly of is z forwarded he Bureau herewith. | statement
contains no infor € the is’not being set forth herein.

rs n h was held in the Winthrop
on Thursday, July 31, CRISMAN a d that they both met KENNETH ARNOLD
there about 1:00 P. M. ‘They sta é hey all left ARNOLD's room about
3:00 P. M. and + CRISMAN took ARNOLD to rry's Airport at Tacoma and
ARNOLD flew his plane to Seattle sré he ‘picked up Captain EMIL SMITH, CRIS-

Y stated that he picked up and SMITH at Bérry's irport about 5;00

M, and that HAROLD DA eNO? $s room about fat: we P
stated that he SMITH
to get his car AH mn t 1 CRISMAN stated they
returned about & c ne 2 y ace officers were
in ARNOLD's room pe N left ‘abo ight e stated that he
returned to ARNOLD's room Friday y afternoon for 1f hour
from 2:30 to 3:00 P. M., Lin OLD SMITH were still there and
neither seemed to be all if DAHL was in ARNOLD's: room on Friday,
August 1 The best tt ud ‘ € MAN and DAHL as
took ple Ou effect most of the talk

i that no ‘one seemec y i ted he formations a that

no connectior any flying disc.

sta: ted that } N v 1 ictures of the plece
rock for t 2 ba 1 that the Intelligence: officers did not

appear to

1 Lumber Company at 235
water. Avenue, z N ir i. FRED. CRIS recéntly been —_—
H } et

tection to
or Sheriff's officers. CR. 1 resides at 1: ‘oodland, Tacoma, W
Amy serial number 0-758-951. the war he 1 a pilot and it is believed

presently holds a, Reserve Officer e's commission a Captain.

Regarding the B=25. which hed, killing 4
and Lieutenant BROWN of the 4th Aire Forces, Capt in ROBERT G, BJORNING,

Officer, Mc Chord Field, vised that this. in vestigation of the crash reflected
an aust stack had burned out on the left engine which in turn caught the

left g afire and that when the left wing broke off, it also broke off the
tail. The plane at the time of the crash was carrying Captain DAVIDSON,
Lieutenant BE > the hitch-hiker and a man as Crew. Chief to take care of the
airplane. The Crew Chief and the itch-hiker parachuted to safety, but Captain
DAVIDSON and Lieutenant BRO ere killed. He stated that their investigation
reflected no indication of a at whatever.

of the records of the Winthrop Hotel at Tacoma,

Washington revealed t) ARNO. zivi is address as Route #1, Mount-
Boise, Idaho. rented room 502 from Ju ly 30 at 7:43 P.M. until

August 19, 1947

August 3, A record of Phone calls made from room 502 during this period

y made by Miss SA GG. This record reveals that 1- ARNOLD on
July 31 called PALMER “at +-5200,. Evanston, Illinois, collect. On the same
date called Lieutenant BROWN at 5800 Hamilton Field, California, collect,

ARNOLD also called 0109-J in ise, Idaho on July 31. On August 1 ARNOLD called
LON-1,936, Portland; PALMER at Dearborn 5200, Chicago; and SMITH called RODDY

at Dearborn 2323 at Chicago. Both Chic. go calls were collect, The remainder
of the calls appear to be personal calls and are not bei: 1g set out. A record
of the phone calls made are being retained as an exhibit in the Seattle Office,

The following information was. obtained by Special Agent
PIERRE H. LE in intervi August 12, 1947 with Captain MML J. SMITH,
3027 West Laurehurst Drive, ited Airlines pilot: It should be noted tha
Captain SMITH has previously received publicity for having supposedly seen
flying discs or similar objects on July 4, last while on a routine United Air—

s flight out of Boise, Idaho in.co

concerni this incident. Captain SKITH states that they took ise,
Idaho at 83:12 P. M. and’ headed Northwest at 300 degrees and while still climbing
at 8,000 feet, co-pilot STEVENS called his attention to some objects in the
sky ahead of them about ten degrees left which neither one could identify.
SMITH states t he called a CA erator at Ontario, Oregon and reques-
ted him to step outsi shack and see if he could see any of these
objects overhead, The CAA radio operator replied in the negative,

( 1 states that he first met KE T NOLD on
July 5 in the offices Seattle Post Intelligencer where both were being
interviewed concerning i i y . Si states that he
next met A I qi ks a in Boise, Id é ich time he, SMITH,
was on anoth ‘Ligh rough Bois ( Da F: > ay-over there,
On tt sir par Cay LLLIs DSON and
Lieutenant FRANK f. reporter JOHNSON
of the) Boise smar a ARNOLD was ‘on Thursday,
July 31, last when he da sph 2 Pom NOLD calling from. T;
in the early a noon at which time t SMITH to come ov
join him ui i isc story for
and some 2 ad r might be

¢NOLD in Tac and /
fly over ick hi 3 Airport at 4:00 F
soeing Fi
Tacoma, We ¥ they w met.t

proceeded in CRISMAN's. ca: t linthrop
room 502. ARNOLD d ‘ thing to eat and
or CRIG called a ROTD. DAH: ited him up
SMITH states he had r
cipants in the latest fl.
acquaintance wi
While in tk n S
RAYMOND F of. the: \ s hicas equestir OLD investigate

the CRIS H ory i ma, ARNOLD: in
called
h cz 7 forwarded him
for cover: s J ortly thereafter, at about yi} = I
arrived a 1e room 1e discussion began among the four
DAHL a CE {AN had seen on Maury Island. DAHL professed reluc-
tance to tell the s i that several unfortunate incidents |
g discs he believed the entire
s connection he stated that four or
rting the flying dises, a ealled at his
home and h da i 1 him the course of which DAHL was warned to
forget all about everett 2 Maury Island. In addition
to that, DAHL stated that year, old son had run away from home
followi incident and en “picked up by the police somewhere in
Montana. After some further d i ia finally agreed to tell his story,
of the flying disc incident in front of SMITH after eliciting a promise from
SMITH that he would not discuss the matter for at least two weeks, It should
be noted that DAHL had previously told his story to ARNOLD and GRIS! At
this point DAHL related the incident which t already been described and which
he alleged had taken place on or about June 23 or 24. While relat the
incident Dé mentioned that he had taken pictures of the flying dise vh ich
he had seen but that the printed films were. marred with ite spots. When
DAHL had concluded his stor, s "elated that he had gone the following

day to Mi Tsla: 3 1 told him concerning the fra
and had 3 time picked up severa 1 fragments taken them with him.
this tim R. N related that he also saw one of the flying discs hovering
e Island but that it had di peared into a cloud. When DAHL and CRIS
ed telling their story LD told the group that had earlier in
that. evening called Captain DAVIDSON and Lieutenant BROWN, Army Intelligence

officers and rere on their way to the Hotel room. At this point DAHL

protested that he did not hh to tell his story» before anyone else and he
dvised by SMITH that if the case why didn't he just leave and not
nere when ae arrived. C » DAHL and {ITH then left the room and
downstairs. , DAHL departed alone. .-( SMAN drove SMITH back to Boeing Field
Seattle where SMITH desired to pick up his own personal car, which he’ did.
y then returned to the found Captain DAVIDSON and Lieutenant
Y in room 502 with K HA OLD met them at the door and seemed
excited, explaining to & Captain DAVIDS d just drawn a reproduction
of a. frea is h he Saipeaeale been seen by a woman in / Arizona | d that
this dre 1 KA reproduction of the fly: Sr which he, LD, had
states that shortly after
DAHL's Satory to the Army offi-
discussion with Lieutenant
the story for
d to tell t the story at this ti Me 5 BROWN
story for one mnths Following this
is story of the flying dises over Maury

st 19, 1947

us) did ee
whether

1en went down to the lobby where
i entered a phone booth to call for a car
he group. and met BROWN outside the phone
booth where t ive to the credibs
i and DAl HL's ei a BROWN h
out if the story was on the level
day regarding this matter. The group then proceeded. to the front of the Hotel
at which time C AN brought hi to the front of the Hotel and took from
his trunk a box of tt leged flying di agnents picked up on Maury Island.
e offered them to nd DAVIDSON end the “Army ¢a rrived m McChord
ield the box of fr bs was placed ir e car wi st 5 CRI
departed alone and JOLD. and SMITH went in search of s hing to eat and later
returned to the Hotel for the night.

On Friday. morning, August’ 1, 1947, ARNOLD received a call
from CRISMAN informing him that a ad crashed during the night and it was
believed to be the ne plane which BROWN and DAVIDSON were flying. Following
this call CRISMAN and DAHL came to the Hotel room and from the room CRISIAN

gain called McChord F in ¢ ten gi nformation about the crash.

TH took the phone from i a 2 a Colonel GREGG, identifying
himself s the only one which had taken
off from McChord Field the pre BGG told him that it was, Follow-

s call ARNOLD called RA) h t in Chicago d informed him of the
t's conversations th AVIDSON ere believed
to have been killed. PALM
the Ancident and that. he, PALMER, s no longer interested. S&S
Me and Beker PAIK if he could shed any light on Pk
ditentaent ff AN v
lowing th k
iis and an aviation. e e Chicago
H states that he had prefiously made an agreement with RODDY in
Chteacs that. should he evér run across any flying disc stories ch. showed
promise of news value, that he would contact, RODDY and this call was a result
of that agreement, Shortly afterward, Colonel GREGG called him from McCh ord
a ane that i Field had’ requested that OLD, ITH, CRISMAN
' milton Field for convenience Of any Army
be forthcoming, After this call the
four mer 1 restaurant for lunch. During the course of this meal SWITH
excused himself from the table and attempted to call SAC BOBBITT of the Port-
land « Field Office, Federal reau of Investigation with whom he cleims acquain-
tance. BOBBITT, however, unevadlable and & was unable to complete. the

Pete Tey

a Mr,
lephone
while
under the

commu=
eminent and
ortly

the Coffee Shop

eutenant BROWN.

t he would
(Siinday)
norrow (Sunday)

August 19, 1947

SMITH an s Office where a reporter met them
and took them to M There they read the
latest press’ releases and had a di sion with MORRELLO regarding the enony-
mous phone calls. In the course of this discussion MORRELLO mentioned the
name of Major GEORGE SAN ic Relations Officer at McChord Field as
being one of the officers, interested in the investigations

RS. P
RS, F

+ which time
SMITH and

Following this discussion
res they still refused to divulg
he Hotel for the night.

ID returned to

On: Sunday morning, August. 3, 1947, DAHL & eared at the

Hotel room-and told’ them that he had received a letter from © 1 which said
in effect, "Take care of my business. I'll be out of town for three or four
days." DAHL had a letter with him but he did not show it. to 3 or ARNOLD.
The three men then drove to DAHL's secretary's house in South Tacoma. and
ana the four of them then went to breakfast on the South Tacana

them nt to breakfast SMITH excused himself
feld and arranged an appointment to meet
. They then took DAHL's secretary to her
iter and then drove SMITH and OLD back
as going to take them to Maury Island thet
not. further stated that he was sick of the
was ever contacted by the Amny or the au i
ything and claim to be "the: bi
to the Hotel, SMITH met i

ked her up
While the fou

and called
him at. the
home where Dé
to the Hotel.
day and
entire business and
he was going to deny ever having seen
that ever lived". Shortly after returning

Major SANDERS

in the lobby and they % in SUITH's car to a coffee shop in South Tacoma where
j stire story of the incidents which

SMITH proceeded to tell }
had occurred in Taco
afternoone

duced him to
entire story

and DAHL story since Thursday.
Hotel and intro=

oy

rove
not: r to the fragments

and DAHL had left in the Hotel room. . They, then ret rned to the Hotel room and
SANDERS left tt Afte. ck: i é SMITH took A

s, Sl OLD to Berry's
H drove himself back to Seattle.

ch was

rival in Seattle,
appeared at Si ts home
paper containing ; story which had orig ted
ho in the Boise rich was written by JOHNSON following
that fragments d been carried by Tieutenant BROWN and
at this time continued to
Press and told LANTZ that he had placed

Mey

refuse to give any statements for th

Federal
advises
at the County-City
to the incidents in
morning,

and

deposition is in no y

Portland,
ices by the
y this office.

Bur

For
Intelligence pee M
0.N.I,-S.1.D.-F.B.1. &
at McChord Field had re
Forces f
Officer
could be eb
related that
not handle it.

1e9h5 :

Port land
San Francisco

San Francisco z

the. incident. SMIT

not. yet been contacted,
a trap for him".
eared before Lawiy

deposition of

yer JO OLAN
the facts relating
last until $

August 3, last.

in possession of the w
It should be noted that thi
aken by the writer above

tion are being sent to the
nformation only.

Butte,
Unless

R

ra

3ureau, Captain BJORNING,
Meld, Ft. Lev shington advised at the weekly
elligence conference that the Pubic Relations Officer
Mies a telephone call from an individual at Army Air
ch call the Public Relations
N. which
Captain BJORNING further
ion in this matter and that he did

ic

a tnas spabit cly close

ARNOLD to mee

KENNETH

i

AB L ert G Y/C7-

STATE OF WASHINGTON }
ss
COUNTY OF KING )

d. E. SMITH, being first duly sworn, on oath, deposes
and says:

This is a narrative statement as to what took place in
Tacoma from Thursday, July 31 until Sunday, August 3.

Thursday I received a telephone call from Tacoma from a
Kenneth Arnold. The gist of this conversation was that he thought
it would be a good idea for me to come to Tacomg and listen to the
story of two men whose names were Fred Crismon and Harold Dahl.
This Kenneth Arnold I had met two times previous -= once on July 5
at the office of the P.I. in Seattle for a very brief time and the
~~ time in Boise, Idaho when I was passing through on one of
my trips.

In this conversation with Arnold on the phone, I made the
statement that it would be impossible for me to go over to Tacoma
due to my going out to Salt Lake City the next morning. He said
that he would fly over from Tacoma and pick me up at Boeing Field.
I agreed to this proposition from Arnold. At 4o*clock I met
Arnold at the Boe. Field and we flew back and landed at Barry's
Airport. We were picked up at the airport by Fred Crismon, who
drove the two of us into the Winthrop Hotel. We went up to Room
502 ~~ Crismon, Arnold and myself.

Fred Crismon put a telephone call into Harold Dahl and
asked him would he come up to the room. A half hour later Harold
Dahl made his appearance. At this time there were four men in the
room -- Crismon, Dahl, Arnold, and myself. Mr. Arnold asked Mr.
Dahl to relate his story as to what took place on June 24. Mr.

Dahl was very hesitant about telling the story to me. Arnold and
Mr. Crismon were already aware of the statements that Dahl had made
previous. Mr. Dahl made the statement to me that if any statements
he would make relative to his story, if I would keep it confidential
for two weeks, that he felt definitely that I would want to forget
the whole thing. I made the statement to Mr. Dahl that as far as I
was concerned, I would keep any statements he made to me confidential
for at least two weeks.

Here is Dahl's story: On June 24 (this date to be checked
later) he was in a boat owned by Fred Crismon, who owns the Harbor
Patrol in Tacoma. They -~- Mr. Dahl, a Mr. Knight, and Mr. Dahl's
son age 16, were cruising around Maury Island looking for logs that
had broken away from booms. They were fairly close to shore of
Maury Island when they saw four or five objects in the sky at an
altitude of approximately 1500 feet. He said these objects were

Page #2

100 feet in diameter, circular in shape, and it appeared that
there was a hole in the center of each as he could see the sky
through this hole. He also mentioned that on the inside of the
circle or the hole, that portholes were visible. Their speed was
neglizible as they appeared to hover over a given spot. One of
these objects appeared to be in trouble. Another object came
over and appeared to make contact. After making this contact for
approximately two minutes, it rose to its original position.

At this time the object that appeared to be in trouble
seemed to throw a lot of debris from one of the portholes, These
objects then disappeared from view. Some of this debris that
landed broke in the wheelhouse of the boat, the spotlight, and
the klexons While this debris was falling, my boy and Mr. Knight
got off the boat and hid under some logs. This debris that fell
killed our dog and a sea gull. I asked Mr. Dahl what was done with
the doge He made the statement they threw the dog into the water.

This story was told to Mr. Crismon, who the next day
went out to this Island to check on this story. He verified the
fact of the damage to the boat, also to the fact that there appeared
to be quite a few pieces of either rock or metal on the shore. Mr.
Crismon also stated that while he was over there investigating on
Maury Island, ke also saw a disk. This disk was of the same shape

and contour as the objects explained by Mr. Dahl.

At this point Mr. Arnold clarified for me as to the reasons
he was investigating this story. Mr. Arnold stated that he received
a letter from a Mr. Raymond Palmer, supposedly editor of the Venture
Press, Evanston, Illinois. The gist of this letter was that Mr.
Palmer received a letter from Mr. Dahl and Mr. Crismon, also a
package of these fragments that were found on Maury Island. Mr-e
Palmer also made the statement in the letter that the Chicago
University failed to analyze these fragments and that would Mr. Arnold
please investigate the story. Mr. Arnold was sent a Western Union
check for $200.00 to take care of any expense that he might incur
while making this investigation.

Mr. Arnold had made a telephone call to Hamilton Field to
contact a Captain Davidson and a Lieutenant Brown, who were with
A-2 Intelligence at Hamilton Field, asking them would they make a
trip to Tacoma to also listen to this story of Dahl and Crismon.
When Mr. Arnold acquainted me with the fact that he had made this
phone call in front of Mr. Dahl, Mr. Dahl made the statement that
he would not tell this story to anybody in Army Intelligence. I
made the statement to Mr. Dahl that if he felt this way, that he
should not be in the room when these two Intelligence officers
arrived. Mr. Dahl thought this was an excellent idea.

Page #3

Mr. Dahl, Mr. Crismon, and myself left the hotel room to
go downstairs as Mr. Crismon wanted to get some metal that was in
the back of his car that he had picked up on Maury Island, to
bring back to the hotel room. Mr. Harold Dahl departed.

At this time I mde the statement to Mr. Crismon that I
should like to pick up my car in Seattle. Mr. Crismon drove me to
Boeing Field, Seattle. After leaving me at Boeing Field, he drove
back to Tacoma and I drove my own car back to Tacoma. After I had
put my car in the garage at Tacoma, I went up to the Winthrop Hotel
and in the room at that time was Mr, Arnold, Mr. Crismon, and Captain
Davidson from Army Intelligences. Lieutenant Brown was downstairs 4
getting sandwiches and coffee. When Lieut. Brown came back, the
stories were again related and Lieut. Brown made a statement that
all the facts of these stories would be held in strictest confidence
until released by Mr. Dahl.

After Mr. Crismon had told all the facts, relating not
only his own story but that of Mr. Dahl, he asked for the opinion
of both officers as to what they thought. Lieut. Brown made the
statement that he would like to obtain some of these fragments to
take back to Hamilton Field.

At this time Capt. Davidson and Lieut. Brown were debating
the thought as to whether to stay over night in Tacoma or leave for
Hamilton Field immediately, as the B-25 they were flying was
supposed to be at Hamilton Field the next day for the Air Show.

The five of us then left the hotel room and went down to
the hotel lobby where Mr. Brown made a telephone call to McChord
Field asking them to send a driver to pick up Capt. Davidson and
himself. Lieut. Brown came up to me and made the statement that he
and Capt. Davidson were going back to Hamilton Field and that he
would get in touch with me tomorrow and if after I had seen the
fragments on Maury Island, if I thought in my own mind that this
was authentic, they would immediately leave Hamilton Field and
returne I was to hold this statement by Lieut. Brown in the
strictest of confidence from the other group of three (Dahl, Crismon,
and Arnold).

We then went down to the street where Mr. Crismon drove his
car up in front and took out a box of fragments and gave this box to-
Davidson and Browne While waiting for the driver from MeChord Field,
Lieut. Brown and I discussed Pacific operations and things not pere
tai to this missione Capt. Davidson and Lieut. Brown departed at
app: tely 12:45 AsMe Mr. Arnold and I went back to our hotel
room after having a midnight snack.

Page #4

Friday the lst: At approximately 8 o'clock in the
morning, Mr. Crismon called up our hotel room and acquainted us
with the fact that the B-25 had crashed. Also that he had called
McChord Field and from information he received also verified the
fact that the two men in the ship were Capt. Davidson and Lieut.
Brown, plus a flight engineer and a hitch-hiker, This left both
Mr. Arnold and myself in a very bad state of concern. Approximate-
ly an hour later Mr. Crismon and Mr. Dahl made their appearance in
the hotel room. I still wasn't sure that this was the same B-25
that the two Intelligence officers had left in last night. Mr.
Crismon then again called McChord Field and talked to a Colonel
Gregg and the fact was verified again that the two pilots were
Davidson and Browns.

After an hour or so Mr. Crismon and Mr. Dahl left the
hotel room with a plan in mind of the four of us meeting the next
morning (Saturday) for breakfast and going out to Maury Island.

That evening (Friday) there was a message for me to call
this particular telephone number that was on the message. I called
this number and was asked by the party to please call them from a
paystation. This party was a Mr. Lantz, a reporter on the Tacoma

Times. He told me, "I most certainly am doing myself out of a good
story but I thought you ought to know that somebody has been calling
this paper and giving us a blow-by-blow description of all that has
taken place in your room since you arrived." To verify this, Mr.
Lantz repeated back to me discussions that I felt had only been
taking place in our room.

Mr. Lantz also made the statement that there was a leak
either from the switchboard operator or our room had been tapped.
I asked Mr. Lantz why he was tipping us off with this information.
He made the statement that he didn't mind doing this if in return
that any information that I may let out would be given to him.
After this conversation with Mr. Lantz I went back to our room and
told Mr. Arnold. what took place on the telephone.

Saturday morning: Mr. Arnold and I met Mr. Dahl and
Fred Crismon for breakfast. We then drove out to the boat to go
to the island. The boat was unserviceable at the time so we went
back to the hotel. Mr. Crismon said that he would call later on
in the day and let us know when the boat would be repaired. That
was the last time I saw Mr. Crismon.

Approximately 11 o'clock Saturday morning Mr. Crismon
phoned me and made the statement it would be impossible for him to
keep this appointment with me. We were cut off by the switchboard
operator as this was classified as not an emergency call. The
reason we were cut off was due to a strike in all the Tacoma hotels.

Page #5

Mr. Lantz called up and said if I would call him at
8:30 that evening, he would have some additional information for
me. I called Mr. Lantz at 8:30 that evening. He told me that
this anonymous caller had again called a Mr. Marillo of the
United Press and said that one of the parties that Mr. Arnold and
IT had come down to see was flown to Alaska. Also he mde the state-
ment Mr. Smith would be called to Wright Field Tuesday. This
anonymous caller made the statement to Mr. Marillo that this B-25
was shot down. Mr. Marillo asked this person calling what his
interest was. This anonymous caller made a statement - "Don't think
I am doing it for the newspapers. All I am interested in'is seeing
that this information gets back,to New Jersey."

After I finished the conversation with Mr. Lantz, I went
over to the United Press and talked with Mr. Marillo and had him
read back to me the conversations that he had had with this
anonymous caller. But no opinions at this time were voiced either
by me or Mr. Marillo.

Sunday morning I called a Major Sander of S-2 McChord
Field and asked him to meet me at the Winthrop Hotel at 11 o*clock.
I met this Major Sander at 11 o'clock and we drove to a small coffee
shop on the Tacoma Highway where this complete story was related to
him by mes We then drove back to the Winthrop Hotel where Major
Sander was introduced to Mr. Arnold by me and again listened to
Mr. Arnold's story. Mr. Arnold and I departed from the Winthrop
Hotel Sunday afternoon at approximately 4:30.

This is to certify that the foregoing statement was taken
before me, a notary public; that prior to making said statement, the
witness was first sworn to tell the whole truth and nothing but the
truth; that the statement was then reduced to writing and signed by
me on the day of August, 1947.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF I have hereunto set my hand and official
seal the day and year last above written.

Notary Public in and for the State
of Washington, residing at Seattle.

Affidavit of EMIL J. SMITH

R WT VT) Tare aTAUTRN R PRT ACTCOMAN and HAROTD A NAUT
ne 3 YING DISCS SIGHTED BY FRED ChKiSMAN and HAROID A. Danhy

ma, Washington

ss

(.

)

Roe
Ve

* —SrANohnD Form no. 64 a @ @
t
- ‘

“Office a Se * UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT -

TO : » Director, FBI - AIR MAIL DATE: August 26, 1947

FROM ; SAC, San Francisco
t a)
SUBJECT: ‘REPORTS OF FLYING DISCS

There are being transmitted herewith to the Bureau photostatic copies
of three reports received from Lieutenant Colonel DONALD-SPRINGER, A-2, Fourth
‘Yair Force, Hamilton Field, California, involving reported sightings of aay
discs. C44
The Los Angeles Office is being furnished with a photostatic copy of/
the report of Lieutenant Colonel SPRINGER dated August 18, 1947 concerning the
investigation conducted at the Muroc Flight Test Base, Muroc, California.

The Butte Office is being furnished with a photostatic copy of the
report of Lieutenant Colonel SPRINGER dated August 20, 1947 which sets forth a
letter received from Mr. R. Je MADDEN, Division Plant Engineer, Pacific Telephone
and Telegraph Company, Helena, Montana.

This office is maintaining contact with Lieutenant Colonel SPRINGER
and will furnish the Bureau with a subsequent report from him concerning the ob-
servations of Mre RAY A.»SWITZER, Sacramento, California, who has reported
certain observations which he believes may involve a flying disc at Placerville,
California, on August 14, 1947.

EMK :EMB

Enclosures - 3

cc Los Angeles (with enclosure)
Butte (with enclosure)

at, t 1
ea OS Ee: ~ > CONFIDENTIAL
~AADQUARTERS FOURTH AIR FORCE
Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff, ee
_._.___Intelligence
Wanilton Field,

| ‘Tre Investigation of Flying Dise. Invesrication MADE AT
| eee
i ConTROLLING OFFICE -
_... Perrop coverep _.
Case crasstricarion Incident
Status oF case... Pending

| REASON FOR INVESTIGATION: Investigation initiated at request of Air Defense Command
| reference ltr Hq ADC, dtd 7 Jul 47, file D533.5 ID, subj: Investigation of Flying Diso,

SYNOPSIS:

On 8 July 1947, approximately 1000 hours, two incidents occurred in the vicinity
of Muroc Flight Test Base.

No further investigation of these incidents is being considered by this headquarters.

SAN FRANCIS™:

ROUTED TO

7 D.. O. C. $. Form No. 19, whicts
upon Fecsipt of this oe

Commanding, “oftic Muroe J
Captain Taree age Intel on

Colonel
time to be pal and ieee
enough to be reported wes noth!
Colonel to make = farther prone: Jus

TON AT

C )

AFELTOAY1T

STATE OF CALIFORNIA)
COUNTY OF KERN) °

The following is a statement given by Major Richard R. Shoop,
Office of Chief of Tech. Engineering Division, Wuroe Army Air Field,
Muroc, California, statement given on 11 July 1947.

At approximately noon on 8 July 1947, my attention was called to an |
object in the air by Colonel Gilkey. I observed between five (5) and ]
eight (8) miles to the North what appeared to be a thin metallic object.

It appeared to be metallic because the method in which it was flying caused

the sun to reflect like an apparently aluminum colored surface. The object

moved from an intermediate altitude in an oscillating fashion, almost to

the surface of the ground and then started climbing again. It climbed to

a fairly high altitude and moved off slowly into the distance. Tho object
appeared to be the size of a pursuit airplane but did not have the shape of a
conventional plane. The time that the object was in view was approximately

eight (8) minutes. ‘his same object was seen by my wife at the sane time. |

This statement has been given freely and voluntarily without any threats
or promises under duress. This statement consists of one (1) page, and is
the truth to the best of my knowledge and belief. I have initialed all
corrections deemed necessary.

s/s_richard r. shoo,
MAJOR, RICHARD R. SHOOP, AC

WITNESS:

s/s thomas a. momillan
(OAS

have

STATE OF CALIFORNIA ) |

COUNTY OF KERN )

The following is a stetement given by lst. Lt. Joseph ©. “icHenry,
Billeting Officer, Muroc Army Air Field, Muroc, California, statement
given on 11 July 1947, to Mr. Thomas A. McMillan, CIC S/A. this Station.

The following statement concerning the actual observance of what has }
been termed as a "flying Disc" or a "flying Saucer" is true and correct and |
it will be noted that the above mentioned observance was made by me per=
sonally while enjoying complete health in mind and body.

On Tuesday 8 July 1947, at approximately nine-thirty A.¥. (09:30) |
I was in conversation with nersonnel in the Post Exchange Office. My part |
of this conversation was as follows: |

"Someone will have to show me one of these Disc before I will |
believe it.” |

Upon leaving the Post Exchange, I went directly to my Office and be-
fore entering heard one of our local aircraft in the traffic pattern.
Looking up, as I always do I observed the aircraft, and looked slightly
to the left, whereupon I observed two (2) silver objects of either a
spherical or disc-like shape, moving about three hundred (300) miles an
hour, or perhaps less, at approximately eight thousand (8000) feet, heading
at about three hundred twenty degrees (520°) due north.

When I first observed these objects I called S/Sgt. Gerald ©, Nauman,
T/Sgt. Joseph Ruvolo and Miss Jannette Marie Scotte who immediately came
to where I was standing. I pointed in the direction of the objects and
asked them the question "Tell me what you see up there." Whereupon, all
the three (3) with sundry comments stated, "They are flying Disc". To
further verify my observance I asked them to tell me in what direction the
objects wore travelinc, without indicating their direction myself, and again,
all three (3) in a consistent nature stated thet the objects were moving
toward Mojave, California.

I had time to look away several times and renew my vision of the objects
+o make sure that there were not any results of eye strain, or in eny nature
an optical illusion. The objects in question were not repeat, were not air=
craft, the objects could not have been woather balloons released from this
station, since they were traveling against the prevailing wind, and since
the speed at which they were traveling and the horizontal direction in which
they were traveling, disqualified the fact that they were weather balloons.

cal
Q
U3

After the observance of these phenomenon and hoping that I might have
time to enlist further witnesses, I immediately ran into the dispensary to
get personnel who are Medical Officers to verify, for my own curiosity, the
actual observance of these objects, but by the time I reached the back porch
of the dispensary, Mrs. A. C. Naum, who is a registered nurse, and about
sevon (7) other personnel were with me, the objects, had by that time, dis-
appeared, due to the speed with which they were traveling. Upon further
investigetion, two (2) of us et the same time sighted another object of a
silver spherical or dise-like nature at approximately eight thousand (8000)
feet, traveling in circles over the North-end. I called the objects to the
attention of Mrs. Naum and pointedit out to the other personnel standing near
by. All of us saw the object, with the exception of two (2) out of seven (7)
personnel. All of us looked away from the object several times to make sure
there was no eye strain or from permitting the object to become an optical
illusion.

From my actuel observance the object circled in too tight a circle and
too severe a plane to be any aircraft that I mow of. It could not have been
any type of bird because of the reflection that was created when the object
reached certain altitudes. The object could not have been a local weather
balloon for it is very impossible that a weather balloon would stay at the

same altitude as long and circle in such a consistent nature as did the
above mentioned object.

I am familiar with the results of too constant vision of the sun or
any bright object and am aware that optical illusions are possible and

probable. I wish to make this statement that the above mentioned observance
was thet of actual subject matter.

This statement has been given freely and volunterily without any threats

or promises under duress. This statement consists of two (2) pages, and

is the truth to the best of my knowledge and belief. I have initialed all
corrections deemed necessarye

s/s joseph c. mo henry
1ST LT JOSEPH C. MC HENRY AC
WITNESS:

s/s thomas a. me millan
THOMAS A. MC MILLAN

J Ogee

STATE OF CALIFORNIA )
COUNTY OF KERN )

The following is a statement given by Captein John Pau] Strapp,
ight Test, Muroc Army Air Field, Muroc, California, statement given to
Mrs Thomas A. McMillan, CIC Agent, this Stetion, on 12 August 1947.

At 11:50 hours, 8 July 1947, while the undersigned was sitting in
an observation truck located in Area # 3, Rogers Dry Lake, for the

purpose of observing a P-82 ejection seat experiment, the following
unfamiliarity was observed. 5

The undersigned was gazing upwerd toward a formation of two (2)
P-82's and an A-26 aircraft flying at 20,000 feet, preparing to carry
out 2 seat ejection experiment, when I observed a rounded odject,
white aluminum in color, which at first resembled a parachute canopy.
The first impression wes that a premature ejection of the seat and
dummy hed occurred. This body was ejected at a determined height lower
than 20,000 feet, and was falling at three (3) times the rate observed
for the parachute which was ejected thirty minutes later. As it fell
it drifted slightly north of due west against the prevailing wind, to-
ward Mount Wilson. The speed, horizontal motion could not be determined,
but appeared slower than the maximum velocity 50-80 aircraft. :

As this object descended through a low enough level to permit
observation of its lateral silhouette, it presented a distinct ovular
outline, with two (2) projections on the upper surfece which might have
been thick fins or nobs. These crossed each other at intervals, suggest-
ing either rotetion or oscillation of slow type.

No smoke flemes, propeller arks, engine noise, or other clasuable (7)
or visible means of propulsion were noted. ‘The color was silvery, re<
serbling aluminum painted febric, and did not appear as dense as a
parachute canopy.

When the objeet dropped to a level such that comes into line of
vision of the mountain tops, it was lost to the vision of the observer.

It is estimated that the object was in line of vision about 90
seconds. Of the five (5) people sitting in the observation truck, four i
(4) observed this object and made remarks about it. These people includes

Mr..Lenz - Civilien, Wright Field, Dayton, Ohio
(Other names not given)

The following is my own personal opinions about this ‘Objects

1. I think it was a man-made object, as evidenced distaintly by
the outline and functional appearance.

|
]
|

SEARS T ~~

AFFIDAVIT

STATE OF CALIFORNIA )

COUNTY OF

)

The following is a statement given on 14 July 1947, by Jdannette
faric Scott, Secretary to lst Lt J. C. McHenry, Billeting Officer,
Muroe Army Air Field, Muroc, Californias

I am fully “aware of my Civil end Constitutional Rights, and under-
stand prior to making this statement.

On Tuesday morning 8 July 1947, at approximately 10:00, while typing
some cards, and taking care of my routine work, Lieutenant McHenry
called me, along with T/Sgt. Josoph Ruvolo and S/Sgt. Gerald 2. Nauman,
to the front of B.0.Q. "A" Bldg. Pointing up in a direction directly
above me he asked us to explain whet we saw. There were two, silver
colored disc like ébjects flying toward Mojave, California, one directly
back of the other, at a speed of about 300 to 400 miles por hour, having
an altitude of approximately 8000 feet. I listened carefully for a few
minutes, and heard no drone, such as should be heard from any aircraft.
I also cast my eyes to another direction and looking back to the same
spot, I was able to distinruish the same objects again. Having assured f
myself thet there was no eye-strain, I wes convinced these objects were sift
not weather balloons due to the horizontal position in which they were i
flying. Nor could they have been birds of any nature, due to the de-
finite reflection from the sun rays. {
i have been on this Jase, considering an absence of six months, i
approximately eighteen months, and am familiar with all type aircraft.

About three or four minutes, after these flying objects had nearly \
peared, I glanced around and sighted another flying object,

lar to the above montioned objects. This flying object was silver i
colored and was in the shape of a dise. Unlike the first two this object f
was flying ine ticht circle, neither losing nor gaining altitude, at Re
approximately eight thousand feet, therefore I was convinced it could i

not have been a weather balloon, and because of the tight circle it could
not have been any type aircraft.

This statement was given freely and voluntarily without threats
or promises under duress. This statement consists of one (1) page, and
is the truth to the best of my knowledge and belief. I have initialed
all corrections deemed necessary.

I am of sound mind and body, and swear that this statement is true

and correct.
s/s _jannotte marie scott
Jamnette Marie Scott

WITNESSES:
s/s thomas a. me millen ayn eae St
; 7
THOMAS A. MC MILLAN Sere ete ————

ATIAIMT —
SONTID ul y > trae rt
db ot

44
sa }
ha

vw : 2

APURT DAF -1.f

STATE OF CALIFORNIA )
COUNTY OF KERN )
The following is a statement given by S/Sgt. Gerald *, Nauman,

4144th AAFBU, Muroc Army Air Field, Muroc, California, statement given
on 14 July 1947, to lst Lt. J. ©. McHenry, Billeting Officer.

On the eight of July 1947 at ten o'clock (10:00) in the morning
I observed personally two (2) flying disc, flying in a north west direction
at an estimated altitude of seven or eight thousand feet, traveling at
approximately three or four hundred miles per hour.

Just a few minutes before this I was in the Silleting Office and
First Lieutenant Joseph ©. Mellenry, called me and two (2) others out-
side. He then asked us what we saw. I saw two (2) objects with my own
eyos, and I am now end was then in perfect physical condition. I have
20-20 vision and I am positive these two (2) objects could not have been
Aircraft, weather balloons or birds. ue to the altitude in which they
were flying, they gave off a definite reflection from the rays of the sun.

In eddition to these two (2) dise I saw another object a fow
minutes later at the same altitude doing certain maneuvers such as flying
in a tight circle. The two disc had already disappeared. This object to
my knowledge of aircraft could not have been an airplane because of the
very tight maneuver it was undergoing. I have been flying in and heve
been around all types of aircraft since 1943 and never in my life have I
seen anything such as this. If necessary I can and will swear to this
statement.

This statement has been given freely and voluntarily without any
threats or promises under duress. This statement consists of one (1)
page, and is the truth to the best of my knowledge and belief. I heve
initialed all corrections deemed necessary.

s/s te. ce robinson
PFC. T. C. ROBINSON

WITRESS:

s/s thomas a. mc millan
: Mt

peti anette as

e
i
o> |
shiz

re

Sica Pd

UNIDENTIFIED OBJECT
4@AF°1208-I
20 August 1947

MEMORANDUM FOR THE OFFICER IN CHARGEs

1. On 20 August 1947, this agent and Special Agent Hubbard

interviewed Mr. Ray A. Switser, Insurance Adjustor, at his home, 3431

David Way, Sacramento, California, and he stated in substence: On the
afternoon of 14 August 1947, he was driving his automobile from Placer=
ville, California, on the Cedar Ravine Road.
the front seat of the automdbile and Mrs, Switser’s mother and the two

Switzer children were in the back seat of the car. At about 1600 hours
they were at a point approximately five miles southwest from Placerville

Switser's wife was in

when Switzer saw a white snoke trail out of the corner of his eyes In
searching for a rocket ship (P80) he saw an object, four to six feet in

length, ten to fourteen inches wide, and of a metal color, bright like

highly polished chromium, In relation to the travel of the automobile

the object was first seen at 1030, and when the object \ = reached a

point at approximately 1200, it was engulfed in a puff of dark gray smoke ]
about ten feet in diameter. The object was traveling at a terrific rate |
of speed and seemed to be in @ very shallow dive. When the puff of smoke
appeared, the object disappeared completély and there were no particles

seen to have fallen from the smoke. The point where the object was en=

gulfed in the smoke was about eight hundred yards distant (in front of

)
Switzer with no possibility of the object being hidden from view by yege= sy

tation or terrain.

The object appeared rectanguler in shape except for

one very short period of time it appeared to have a top surface that was
very slightly curved. Mr. Switzer turned to tell his wife about the

object and found her with her mouth open in an effort to say

and with her hand in a pointing gesture toward where the object had dis- \
appeared. The object was not very high in relation to the terrain and |
seemed to be following the contour of a canyon. ; .

2 In @ separate interview Mre. Switzer concurred in the informat
obtained from Mr. Switzer with the following exceptions: ‘The smoke
and the puff thet engulfed the object appeared dark pray in color and there
was no change in the color, Mre+ Switzer estimated the object to be about |
five feet long and'about « foot wide with the top surface being slightly —
curved. The object appeared to be some larger in front than in the rear, Re

AGENT'S NOTES: At the time this object was seen, the sun was to the Switser'
back, the sky was clear and the object gave off a very bright reflection,
Mr. Switzer has been connected with the field of insurance investigation for

the last eighteen years and appears to be a man not
The other passengers of the car did not
the process of moving to a ranch near Placervill

ee!
will be Box 43, Aukum, Eldorado County, Calif.

to meet Mr. Switzer at 1400, 26 Aug 47 at Raffe:

for the purpose of going back over Cedar Ravirje Road + UReRe 67
where the object disappeared. | } fl

Bryden E. Moon, Special Agent, 4AF CIC

FAN FRAWCIEC!

CONGIDNEAITT Nope

VINE LIN 21d eS

Pn sa RE hee Pa) Fae

AMONGINEN TA
Fé Liv

i I Pe:
WALN INL LCAL

HEADQUARTERS FOURTH AIR FORCE k
Offiee of the Assistant Chief of Staff, A-2
Intelligence
Hamilton Field, California

4AFDA 20 August 1947
33305/1208-1
SUBJECT: Flying Disc.

TOs Special Agent in Charge, FBI, U. S. Dept. of Justice,
Federal Office S5uilding, Room 422, San Francisco, Calif.

1. The attached letter was received by this office from \frs
Re Je Maddon, Division Plant Engineer, Pacific Telephone and Telegraph
Company, on 15 August 1947.

2e No further investigation will be made of this reported inei-
dent by this headquarters.

L. SPRING!

1 Incl Lt. Colonel, osc if
As indicated. AC of S, Ao? Vv
gen

-
wool
6th Army - 1 cy
PoIel
inka =a esem anon
ee ie
€ U. 6. OF _ ai

OUTED TO

427 W. 34 Avenue
Spokane, Washington
August 8, 1947

Military Intelligence Division, U.S.A.
MoChord Field, Washington

Gentlemen:

Following the reading of an secount of the visit of ur. Kenneth
Arnold, Boise, Idaho, as published in the Spokesman Review under date
of August 7, 1947, the undersigned considered the enclosed account of

an observetion of a "flying saucer" would be of interest to you.
This account hes not been given to any newspaper or other public-

ation as yet.

Yours truly,

/e/ Be Je Madden
Ry Jo MADDEN,
Division Plant mers
The Paces Tele & Tels Gos

FEDERAL BUREAU
ts 8. DE rad
| AUG 21 1947

—~—> —

f

gee

——— s

a.

re

Le natiiaes
“- -

Ee

/
Pe s

time seoing
the “saucer”, coming cver the horizon at high speed from the southwest, (Karl
first thoucht it e meteor) and travelling northeasterly, and the bringing of
the car to a stop.

Ag the car came to a stop, Steve, Karl and Sob, simultaneously, saw the
followings

Direstly ahead, (NeW) 2 to 3 miles distant and approximately 3000 ft.
above the ground, « bright dise hovering and fluttering in the sir. Descend-

This dise was, from the viewpoint of the observers, apparently 3 ft.
in diameter, clroular and of no great thickness « approximately 3 or 4 inches.

The sky was blue with gonttered omall clouds, the sun was shining
brightly ond the disc gleamed and shimmered in the bright sunlicht as if
covered with highly polished nickel.

After the “diese” diseppeared from view, the sedan ond ite occupants
proceeded northwesterly along the road, but could discern no evidence of
the presence of the "dise" along or adjacent to that thorofare.

It is to be remembered that the dimensions as stated above were as
they appeared to the chservers some 2 or 3 miles from the "diese" and the
true dimensions mst be considerably grester.

Division Plant Mer.
The Pace Tol. & Tele Co.

’ NTH A

rene

.
5 a oe
i ts A es

: P : es ,
. i sd Le = a SR Se ee.

La =
a ‘Office ‘Memorandum * UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

: DIRECTOR DATE: 9-15-47

Pens ? SAC, San Francisco

SUBJECT: REPORTS ox fuytue G DISCS

Reference is made to my letter dated August 26, 1947. Enclosed is
a copy of a letter dated September 9, from Lt. Colonel DONALD L. SPRINGER,
of AZ, with 1emorandum prepared by BRYDEN 4 {00N, 4th Air Force CIC on
August 20, 1 nd August » 1947, The me am contains information
regarding observations of RAY A, S'

Also enclos is a letter dated September 10, 1947 from Colonel
SPRINGER with attachment dated September 9, 1947 -

For the information of the Bureau, KB} =f
who has been repeatedly interviewed in this matter sls A2, has ex

intention to A2 selling for publication his detailed account of
investigation of flying discs,

62-2938
DWK,

REOORDED

FX-64

, s
om MAMETREN TAY
Wr age ee pe Be ae Oe S
x % FUL
Office of the Assistant E
Intelli
Hamilton Field,
4APDA
$35 .5/1208-1

SUBJECT: Investigetion of Flying Disc.

TO: Special Ag
Room 422,

1 Inel:
MOIC, Moon, dtd 20 Aug 47.

. BUR
Us Ow

AU GE TitveSTier
Or 3

1030 hours 16 August 1947
Telephone message received from lire Al Neck, City Sditor, Oakland Tribunes

| lr. Ray As Switzer, S451 David Yay, Sacramento 2, Calif, end insurance
| oxeoutive with the firm of Moduire end Wallis, of Sacramento, reported the
following incidents

At 43?.%- on August 14, while driving on Cedar Nevine Road, 4 to &
miles southeast of Placerville, Uslif, he, aecompanied by his wife, observed
a “vapor” trail moving from north to southe Closer observation revealed a
| piece of “shiny metel et from 500 to 1000 feet altitude moving at e "high |

rate of speed"s The object appeared to be nore "rocket than diso-
shapede It appeared to be acproximately § feet in length and was “tilted
in @ soni-cirele". |

The ebjest struck the ground with a “puff of black amoke" about 100
feet below the top of a hill which was approximately 750 feet eahoad of the
automobile driven by the observer. An intervening canyon prevented investi-
gation of the location where the object was observed to have landed.

The observer is able to identify the location where the object was
observed to lands |

Oar. Switzer is @ University of California graduate, and is personally
known by members of the Orkland Tribune steff. te is a brother-in-law of
Cole Gray of the Marine Hospital of Southern California)

MEMORANDUM FOR THE OFFICER IN CHARGE:

1. On 20 August 1947, this agent and Special Agent Hubbard ;
interviewed lire Hey A. Switzer, Insurance Adjustor, at his home, 3451
David Way, Sacremenvo, California, and he stated in substances —
afternoon of 14 August 1947, he was driving his automobile from P
ville, California, on the Cedar Ravine Road,” Mrs Switser's wife v
the front seat of the automobile and Mrs. Switzer's mother and
Switzer children were in the back seat of the car. At about
they were at @ point approximately five miles southwest from
when Switzer saw a white smoke trail out of the corner of his
searching for a rocket ship (780) he saw an object, four to six
length, ten to fourteon inches wide, and of a metal color, bright |
highly polished chromium. In relation to the travel of the
tho object was first seen at 1030, and when the object
point at approximately 1200, it was engulfed in a puff
about ten feet in diameter. The object was traveling at a
of speed end seemed to be in a very shallow dives When the p
appeared, the object disappeared completely and there were no
seen to have fallen from the smoke. The point where the
guifed in the smoke was about eight hundred yards distant ni
Switzer with no possibility of the object being hidden from view by
tation or terrains ‘The object appeared rectangular in shape except
one very short period of time it appeared to have a ban vy
very slightly curved. Wr. Switzer turned to tell his wi
object and found her with her mouth open in an effort to sa:
and with her hand in a pointing gesture toward
@ppeared. ‘the object was not very high in relat:
seemed to be following the contour of a canyon,

2. Ina separate interview "rs. Switzer concurred in the
obtained from Mr. Switzer with the following exceptions: he amoke
and the puff thet engulfed the object appeared dark gray in co.
wos no change in the colors iirs.e Switzer estimated the object:
five feet long and about a foot wide with the top surface bei
curvede Tho object appeared to be some larger in front than in

AGENT'S NOTES: At the time this object was seen, the sun wae
back, the sky was clear and the object gave off a very bright rm
Ure Switzer has beer connected with the field of insurance in
the last eighteen years and appears to be a man not desirou’
The other passengers of the car did not see the objects
the process of moving to # ranch nenr Placerville, Calife
will be Box 43, Aukum, Fldorado County, Calif.

to mest lr. Switzer at 1400, 26 Aug 4' "at Kaffels Hotel,
for the purpose of going back over Cedar Ravine ion to” ‘locate
where the object disappeared.

Bryden &, Moon, Speoial Agent, oe cic

Sao A

lie genere

! SARTETIATOAT TIT AT a

\ AINE LIN PLS
UNIDENTIFIED OBJECT
44F 1208-1

Be: On 26 Aucust 47, $/A Hhbbard and this agent contacted Mr. Ray
Switzer, Insurance Adjustor at the Saffels Hotel, Placerville, Californie.
After traveling Cedar Ravine road to a point nine miles southeast of
Plecerville, known as Suck's Sar, Switzer decided thet the place from
where he had observed the object on 14 Aug 47 was nearer to Plecerville.
After a thorough check of the road, Switzer believed the spot where he
had observed the object to be on the ridre just north of Vebber Creek
where the road breaks over the summit. This point is two miles from the
Raffele Hotel, Placerville, California, on the Cedar Hevine Roed. As
the road epproee! the summit it curves to the left which would provide
fan observer from an automobile a sweeping view throuch 40° of the canyon
and the horizon on the south side of Webber Creek. fhis point of observa~
tion lies 38° 42° 45" North Latitude and 120° 47' 15" West Longitude.

The elevation at this point is 2,000 feet above level. the horizon
from this igi in the south is formed by a series of mountain peeks which

ly through 38° 39’ 45" and which are on the south side of Squaw
Hollow Creek, a distance of four miles, end ranging in elevation from
2,300 feet to 2,500 feet above sea level. Switzer was not definite as to
what part of the field of view he had seen the object and indicated that it
could have been as far as the horizon. Any object, or particles of an
Object, that Switzer saw, if on the ground on the field of view, would be
fn a six square mile erea of wooded, mountainous terrain which is full of
canyons and revinese

“ AGENT'S NOTES: This agent believes that Switzer could have seen an eluminum
gurfaced eonventionel type aircraft which, due to the distance at which he
observed it, distinguishing features were not seen because of the brifht

reflection and the short period of observation. The aircraft would have been
coming from the left as Switzer turned to the left, thereby giving the effect
of a much creater sped than the object was really travoling. ‘This agent has

no explanation as to the snoke trail observed by Switzer. If reconneisance

ig desired of the area to see tf anything can be located on the cround, this
agent sts that a small type siroraft similar to an IL-5, be used in low
level ght between the hours of 1100 to 1300, Switzer was very cooper=
ative and expended mh of his own time in en effort to be of as much service
as possible. Switser will communicate with the AC of S, Aew2, Headquarters
Pourth Air Force, Hamilton Field, California, in the event of any report of

 giroraft wreckage in the ares.

4. On 26 Aug 47, a check with Ranger Dixon, State Forest Service,

Camino, Celifornie, and George B. Young, Forester, Federal Forest Service,
 Pleeerville, Californie, provided the foljlowi

nformation: there
is in the area in qu

‘been no forest fires or reported aircraft oras!
within the last month.

a Bryden f. Moon, Speciel Agent, 4AF CIC

ORIN ON TT
WINE TUL i rasa

/
i
f

FANBINENTIAL

ee te oe

HEADQUARTERS F
Office of the Assistant
Intelligence
Hamilton Field, California

4AFDA
333 ..5/1208-1

SUBJECT: Investigation of Flying Disco.

10: Special Agent in Charge, F3I, |
Room 422, Federal Office Build

Atteched MOIC for your information.

POR THE AC OF S, Aq-2:

1 Incl:
MOIC, Hubbard, dtd 9 Sep 47.

S. Department of Justice

10 September 1947 =

Cali

; nia.

BA OF, nGaTW

SEP 12 1942

ae a”

e Sa a eee!
BWR YAN A BAZ KAA 2 BEBE

<a

kar=1208-1 ae
Incident ~ |
9 September 1947 *

MBMORA!

NDUM FOR THE OFFICER IN CHARGE: aK
Mr. Ward L. Stewart, 12h2 Wilvia Street, Berkeley, gee %
interviewed 3 September 197 at his place of employsent, the Mining
Budliing, University of California, concerning flying objects he reported
to have seen on 29 July 1947 while with Captain William Hi. Ryherd of the
415th AAF BU (RT). Mr. Stewart stated in substance that he was a Ist lt

in the Reserve and that on the 29th of July 1947
and Captain Ryherd had just landed fron a routine

after 12 noon he "

fligat when

Captain Ryherd called Mr. Stewart's attention to an unidentified fly. Sigt
object that was following a P-80 aircraft at a terrific rate of speed. —
Mr, Stewart estirated the P-$0 to be flying at approximately 250 be oA
per hour on a preliminary approach to landing at Haxilton Field, In Mr, —
Stewart's estination the object he sow following the P-8O maintained @ =
speed of three to four tines that of the aircraft. A moment later a
second object appeared and flew a course described as something similar
to a fighter aircraft's maneuvers when accompanying heavier
left to right movenent, over the object first si chted.
that this maneuvering continued until the objects were out of sight.
estimted the tine to be acproxinately 15 secords, the course approxi
120 degrees. ir. Stewart could not estinate the size of the sts thous

actual altitude, though he did not believe them to be beyond six thous
feet. ur. Stewart described the objects as being milky white in col
and unlike any conventional type aircraft he had ever seen. When
whether he was finiltar with the Navy "Flapjack", Mr. Stewart stated
he was, and that he was certain the objects he reported seeing were |
this nature. ;

pilot of considerable experience. r. Stexart does not convey the im-
pression of being the kind of person who would "1; that he was seeing
objects, nor has he any apparent desire for publicity. ‘ir. Stewart is FY
charge of machine shops at the University of Galifornia, Berkeley,

LESLIE S. HUSBARD, S/A, CIC ADC La?

£4 ERT AE

; SWAT RR a
ONE Baa a

FBI BUTTE 8-15-47 vow
UF Let fector, FBI URGENT ,
OFLyING DISCS. ON INSTANT BA@RAMNEX DATE, AL Wa_HAWKINS, COUNTY
COMMISSIONER AND EX SHERIFF, TWIN FALLS, IDAHO, AND gUMmM J. H.
BROWN, IDAHO STATE WAREHOUSE INSPECTOR, SAME COMMUNITY, ADVISED
THAT ON WEDNESDAY MORNING, AUGUST THIRTEEN LAST, AT APPROXIMATELY
NINE THIRTY AM WHILE FISHING IN RIVER APPROXIMATELY FORTY MILES
SOUTHWEST OF TWIN FALLS, IDAHO, IN ISOLATED COUNTRY, THEY SAW
TWO OBJECTS FLYING THROUGH AIR AT GREAT HEIGHT, WHICH APPREXKX
APPEARED TO BE DISCS, AND AT SAME TIME HEARD ROAR SIMILAR TO NOISE
CREATED BY MOTOR TRUCK, INFORMANTS ADVISED OBJECTS MOVING VERY
RAPIDLY AND ‘BAMWENX THAT THEY EACH APPEARED TO BE APPROXIMATELY SIX
FEET IN DIAMETER, OBJECTS QUICKLY DISAPPEARED FROM SIGHT AND HAVE

NOT BEEN SEEN SINCE , NO FURTHER = THESE OBJECTS PRESENTLY

AVAILABLE. FURTHER INVESTIGATION Bye CONDUCTED BY THIS DIVISION
PURSUANT TO BUREAU BULLETIN eal TWO, SUB DIVISION B, DATED
JULY THIRTY NINETEEN FORTY VEN. BUREAU WILL BE PROMPTLY INFORMED
OF ALL PERTINENT orld

panrsrefy f° i 022% 2777 [09

END

Us
HOLD PLS 6%
7-54 PM OK FBI WA BW

STANDARD FORM NO. 64 9 bd
i

Office Mehivrandum ¢ UNITED Si... GOVERNMENT

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI DATE: August 28, 1947 []

ZC i,
EROM : SAC, SAN FRANCISCO \ i? Ay \-
O Qe

ECT: REPORTS OF FLYING DISCS

ATTENTION: ASSISTANT DIRECTOR D. M. LADD

On August 27, 1947, Lt. Colonel DONALD SPRINGER, A-2, Fourth Air
Force, Hamilton Field, California, advised that the Area Intelligence Require-
ments Division Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff, A-2 Headquarters, re-
quested that one WILLIAM-RHOADS of Phoenix, Arizona, be completely inter-
viewed in connection with a report that he had seen on July 7, 1947, what
he believed were flying discs, RHOADS is supposed to have taken several pic-—
tures of the discs with a 620 Box Camera.

A previous report of this reported sighting of flying discs was
forwarded the Bureau on August 8, 1947.

Colonel SPRINGER has advised that GEORGE F. FUGATE, Jr., an
intelligence agent of A-2 stationed at Long B ach, California, would arrive
in Phoenix, Arizona, on or about September 2,°1947, and would be instructed
to contact the Phoenix Field Division Office.

In accordance with Bureau Bulletin No. 42, Series 1947, it is
felt that an agent from the Phoenix Field Division should interview WILLIAM
RHOADS at 4333 North 14th Street, Phoenix, if RHOADS has not already been
interviewed. Colonel SPRINGER indicated that Mr. FUGATE should, if possible,
sit in on this interview.

A copy of the report from A-2 dated August 4, 1947, along with three
photographic prints of the pictures allegedly taken by Mr. RHOADS, is being
enclosed for the Phoenix Field Division.

WHR/Jjo
62-2938
2 ce Phoenix (Encl.) (AMSD)

AIRMAIL SPECIAL DELIVERY

I

HYNIIS Wau)»

4 *

“STANDARD FORM NO. 64

bax “. Office “. dum UNITED o....... GOVERNMENT

65-477
r TO : Director, FBI >\ugust 27, 1947

ROM
SUBJECT:

TA INGTON
SECURITY MATTER - x

Re Seattle tels August 7, 1947, and August 12, 1947, in the above
captioned matter.

KENNE' Aon 2, Route 1, Mountain View Drive, Boise, Idaho, was inter-
viewed at the Boise Sident Agency, Boise, Idaho, by SA JOSEPH E. JETTE on
ust 19, 1947. r. ARNOLD advised that he received a letter from MOND Ae
iditor, Venture Press, Evenston, Illinois, dated June 26, 1947, in which
R advised thet he was interested in publishing an article in his magazine
concerning the flying discs seen by Mr. ARNOLD near Mount Reinier on June 24, 1947,
which letter is being enclosed to the Bureau. Mr. ARNOLD stated that he did not
give mich thought to PALMER's letter until PALMER wrote him again end informed
him thet aD TRISMAN end HAROLD A. RAHL of Tacoma, Washington, had sent him
fragments of a flying dise and that he would like him (ARNOLD) to go to Tacoma,
Washington, and contact CHRISMAN and DAHL to find out if there was any truth in
a their story about the dise fragments. He steted that he did not answer PALMER's
= letter, but inquired of several friends for their opinion in the matter, end
E that they all told him if PAL! desired to pay his expenses to go to Tacoma,
Washington, and look into this matter, that they did not see where he had enything
Eto lose. He informed that he gave a talk at the Boise Ad Club on July 25, 1947,
about the flying discs he had seen, and also of the request contained in PALMER's
Aletter to go to Tacoma to investigate additional information regarding the find-
ee of Seo fragments by CHRI and DAHL.

ey ARNOLD advised that following his talk, he was approached by a person a
who ota he knew both CHRISMAN and DAHL and that they were very reliable
individuals. He stated thet after thinking it over, he called PALMER by telephone
end at which time he informed PALMER that he would contact CHRISMAN and DAHL end
investigate the matter regarding the dise fragments, if PALMER would send him
$200.00 expense money. He also advised that he received $200.00 expense money

ME Western Union the next morning. He informed that he left for

fashington, via his personal plene on July 30, 1947. Upon arriving at
Pendleton, Oregon, he told his story to ED“BEACH, ChA ny from Portland,
Oregon, who advised him to go ahead with his TRG pps! 2

He stated that he lended at Barry" Airprt Wp ks
room at the Winthrop Hotel. He informed that he’ then ca BALSEy telegyene to
make arrangements to talk to him regerding the, AN f a. He advised that
DAHL insisted on coming to the hotel room immedi erriving et Mr. ARNOLD's
hotel room, DAHL stated that he wanted to forget BEE EtAR the discs as too many things
hed been happening to him, and advised Mr. ARI ror Yn home and forget about
the: discs. Mr. ARNOLD stated that he informed DAHL thet he wanted to obtain all

) YED

270 NOV 18 1964

Se 9 ids
84
UUNITS TWHYALN:

«GEE 24
SEINE RE)

SM 46 tdsy

la
altunags :

Director, FBI August 27, 1947
F

Re: Flying Dises - Tacoma, Wn.

of the information aveilable regarding the disc fragments end that he understood
thet DAHL had told the press about the disc fragments, stating there wes nothing
to the story and that it was a phoney. DAHL immediately replied that his story
was not false or phoney, but that what he had seen and what had happened to him
was so unusual and fantastic that he wanted to forget about the disc fragments.
DAHL then agreed to tell Mr. ARNOLD the following story, providing his name and
the Harbor Patrols would be left outs

DAHL steted that his dog had been killed and his boy hurt and that
the wheel mount on his harbor patrol boat had been struck by disc fragments,
and thet about twenty ton of this material had fallen on the beach at Meuri
Island, end into the bay, and that a day after this incident, a men about forty
years of age had contacted him and told him, "I know whet you sew at Mauri Island
and I'm telling you in a nice way to forget about it and keep your mouth shut."
DAHL stated thet he had obtained a large number of the fragments and had taken
them home, but that FRED ¥, his superior officer, had told him to send
the fragments to RAYMOND PALMER at Chicago; that PALMER would analyze the specimens
free of charge. DAHL continued stating that on the afternoon of June 21, 1947,
he wes on patrol with his boy, dog, and two seamen near @ cove on the east side
of Mauri Islend. He stated that he looked up through the windshield of the boet
and at a height of about 1,000 feet, he saw six round circular grey objects
that looked like large inmer tubes slightly squashed. These objects appeared
to be about 100 feet across and in the center was e hole about twenty-five feet.
DAHL said he assumed they were some type of a balloon, The object in the center
wes lower than the rest of the other objects, and the other objects were circling
around it. The object in the center seemed to be descending while the others
followed. As the objects descended he saw port holes around the inside of the
object and what appeared to be windows. He stated thet the object in the center
descended to about 500 feet, and that suddenly one of the circling objects came
down and touched the object in the center and remained in this position for a
few minutes, while the other objects continued to circle above. The object
which had descended and touched the object in the center and which was lower,
then rose and took its place with the other objects.

All of the objects then started to rise and what appeared to be news-
papers came out of the center of the object in the middle of the circling o
Then the sky seemed to rein leva, the lava coming from the object in the center
and DAHL heeded the boat for shore. He stated that the lava coming from the
object in the center appeared to be a white metal, and as it fell into the water,
clouds of steam rose from the water. He stated that some of the lava 1 d on
the beach. also stated thet his dog was kill end also a sea gull in addition
to his boy being hurt by the falling lave. Mr. ARNOLD continued steting that
DAHL had seid thet he had taken pictures of the object and that if Mr. ARNOLD
wanted them, he could have the negatives. \HL took Mr. ARNOLD to the home of
his secretary that evening and showed him some of the disc fregments he hed
picked up, which were smooth on one side and rough on the other, according to
ir. ARNOLD.

uD

‘irector, FBI August 27, 1947
Re: Flying Discs - Tacoma, Wn.

r. ARNOLD stated he received a telephone call from the press upon
returning to his hotel room, and that the press wanted to know about the flying
disc fragments, and he told them that he was not talking until he had proved
it. He stated he did not know how the press ever knew he was in Tacoma or had
seen DAHL.

Mr.’ ARNOLD informed that at 9:30 A.M. the next morning, July 3 1947,
MAHL and CHRISMAN appeared at his hotel room and DAHL agein asked him to go home
and forget about the discs, that his story was not false, but that he had had
enough trouble. DAHL said that his boy had been missed one morning and had been
found at Lust, Montene, waiting on tables in a cafe; that he did not know how
he had got there and that too many things were happening. Mr. ARNOLD stated
that when DAHL and CHRIS) came to his hotel room, they had an ermful of
fragments, and that CHRISMAN had then informed about how he had seen en object
resembling those seen by DAHL. CHRISMAN stated he had taken the patrol boat
on duly 23, 1947, end had gone to Mauri Island and had found the beach littered
with leva. CHRISMAN stated he had looked up and had seen 2 balloon-like object
with port holes and windows, which had disappeared into a large cloud. ARNOLD
stated that he asked DAHL again to see the pictures of the objects; that DAHL
had again agreed to show them to him. Mr. ARNOLD informed that he had then
a d DAHL and CHRISMAN if it would be all right for him to call a friend,
Captain SMITH, who had also seen some flying dises and let m see the fragments
and hear Mr. DAHL's story. DAHL dissented, h 3 AN readily agreed.
He also stated that he had placed a call to Lieutenant BROWN and Captain
DAVIDSON, Army intelligence officers at Hamilton Field, and had asked them to
come to his hotel, as they had previously instructed him to report to them eny-
thing of an unusual nature or of interest regarding the flying discs.

He stated he flew to Seattle and got Captain SMITH, end that Lieutenant
BROWN and Captain DAVIDSON had come to his room about 4:00 P.M. fy, ARNOLD
advised that he had asked Lieutenant BROWN just what he had found out regarding
the discs, and Lieutenant BROWN had confidentially informed him that they had
obtained a picture of a disc, which appeared to be authentic, which picture
wes taken by a man in Phoenix, Arizona. The picture, according to Lieutenant
BROWN, was of a circular object with a hole in the center, and of another object
that looked like a flying wing. He stated that when Lieutenant BROWN told him
this that he immediately thought of the object seen by DAHL. He steted thet
after hearing DAHL's story, Lieutenant BROWN and Captain DAVID 's attitude
had changed immediately, and thet they appeared disinterested. It was then
suggested that they all go to Mauri Islend and look for the dise fragments.
Lieutenant BROWN end Captein DAVIDSON stated that they hed to return to Hamilton
Field immediately. ir. ARNOLD stated that Lieutenant BROWN and Captain DAVIDSON
were very careful to gather up all of the fragments which had been brought to
the room by DAHL and CHRISMAN.

Director, FBI August 27, 1947
Re: Flying Discs - Tacoma, Wn.

stated that the next morning he received a call from CHRISMAN,
who told him that Lieutenant BROWN and Captain DAVIDSON had been killed in e
B-25 crash. He stated he not know how CHRISMAN knew who had been in
the plane before anyone else. He also stated that during the above conference
numerous telephone calls were received from the press, wanting to know about
the conference. He stated that someone kept tipping the press off es to what
was going on and what was being seid deily verbatim. Je informed that PAUL
LA LLO, United Press men at Tacoma, appeared to know all that took
place during the conference, and even knew of the crash of the B-25 and those
aboard, before the Army released this information. Mr. ARNOLD informed that
when he received news of the crash, that he and Captain SMITH fully expected
to be contacted by Army Intelligenc as they were the last people with
Lieutenant BROWN and Captain DAVIDSON, however, they were never contacted.

le further stated that he and Captain SMITH went down to the United
Press to see what the survivors of the cresh had informed about the crash and
that MORELLO hed told them that the mysterious informant who had been calling
had told him that the B-25 had not crashed, but had beens hot down, also that
{ORELLO's Army informant had said that an observer at Kelso, Washington, had
seen the plane throw out a landing flare after the two survivors had jumped
from the plane, and that the plane had gone into a steep dive and dove into a
hillside, and further that one engine had been on fire, but that the fire
apperatus, protecting the engine, had failed to function. Mr. At OLD steted
that DAHL then came to see him and Captain H and told them to go home and
forget about the discs, that such things as the B-25 crash had been happening
to him all along.

Mr. ARNOLD steted that he then called Mr. PALMER at Chicago and told
him that the deal was off and that if he wanted his $200.00 back, he could
have it; that two men had been killed and he s getting frightened of the
whole thing. He stated that PA R informed him that it was all right with him
to keep the $200.00, however, he would send him an additional check for the
trouble he had put to. Mr. ARNOLD advised that previous to this telephone call,
Captain SMITH had called his friend, MORRIS RODDY, of the Chicago Times and had
told him that he did not have any faith in Army +ntelligence and for RO to
conduct an investigation on PALMER and get to the bottom of th dise fantasy.
dr, ARNOLD also advised: thet previous to the two above telephone calls, he had
asked the press to investigate PALMER, as Army Intelligence hed informed him tht
they could not find PALMER and knew nothing concerning him, and appeared not to
be interested in PALM s d to know more about the flying discs than
anyone else.

fr. OLD stated that he personally thinks thet PALMER's business is
a blind for something else and thet DAHL and CHRISMAN will do anything
PALMER asks him to and will not talk unless PALMER tells
stated that he still wanted to get to the bottom of the
so he and Captain SMITH had decided to go to Mauri Island on Sur

was approached in this regard, and they

to the boat house v SMAN kept his boat, CHRISMAN could not seem to

the boat run, and afte: > some excuses that he had to return to his

nd steted 1 2 , i an hour, and by thet time
mechanic shoul a d and they could all proceed to Mauri

r. / i a thet fi never returned, and thet they were

to locate i fi a 0 3 ephone numbers he hed given t

They located DAHL in a movie, according OLD, and
making some efforts to locate CHE :
left town for a few days. He further informed that about tl

press contacted them and told them an infor: had celled and
that CHRIS! as on his way to Ales

made an appointment wit : MeCord Field tell
Major SANDERS the complete st the efternoo:
Major SANDEI came to the hot c < r to AR} » and some of the
fragments thi A hed brou "s room, following the conference,
ere shown to Ma; SANDER iew he fragments, Mejor SA 3, accor
ine to Mr, ARNOLD, « FESS hey were nothing but slag from the copper mill,
however, before SAN t athered up every fragment he room,
according to Mr. B " hi r i e he

then left for Bois

produced a letter dated August 5, 15 n PALMEF
in which PALMER temp to encourage Mr. ARNO v investig
into the flying d This letter is also being enclose }
ir. ARNOLD also ge JETTE a copy of the article sent
to the Commanding General, ht » Yayton, Oh
f the nine discs near June 24, 1947.

being enclosed to the Bureau. LD advised that

in this matter and knows that there mst be something

He stated that he will do everything in his power to

matter. He also advised that he has no connection whatsoever

Statesmen. ie stated that the Boise Statesman has never paid him for any
information he hes given them. He informed thet he sincerely believes thet
the Boise Statesman is attempting, as he is, to get to the bottom of the flying
discs story. Mr. AR stated that he has told the ebove story to Army

Intelligence and © no one else, with the exception

irecto

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
UNITED STATES
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

OFFICIAL BUSINESS

BUTTE. MONTANA

Encs. to Bureau
Re: Flying Discs
Butte file 65-477

TENTURE PRESS

1718 SHERMAN AVENUE
EVANSTON, ILLINOIS

IENTS 3

et

“et

Mr. Kenneth Amold,

Box 387

Roise, Idaho

VENTURE PRESS
Auget 5, 1947

Mr. Kenneth Arnold,
Box 387,
Boise, Idaho

Dear Mr. Arnold:

It seems that Mr. Maurice Roddy of the Chicago Times got the
story from Mr. Smith, because he called me, told me he was
running it. I knew only what you'd told me over the phone.
Now, it seems the newspapers are pestering the very devil out
of all you fellows. Crisman wired me for instructions, and I
told him to say nothing ta the newspapers, because he'l1 look
silly if the army explains this as "meteors" or something like
that.

I don't blame you for being alarmed, but I trust you've had no
trouble in your flying since then. Let's get thet straight--
there's no horrible plot infolved. It's probably true that the
two men killed were just aecidents. It could be true that it
was not an accident, but I don't think there was any connection
with the disks, or anything of that nature, nor is the material
from Murray Island to blame.

Certainly I don't think you'd suffer from completing your report
on your mission, and sending me your affidavit. Also, you'll
have some money coming for that, and no sense to tossing thet out
of the window. It is unfortunate that the thing seemed so big
you had to call in army intelligence, but it will take them a
long téme to proceed tothe point &'ve reached iuthis disk mystorny.
You see, you aren't the first to see them. They've been known
for nearly forty years, and I have emple proof of that. But
your experience was the first real break toward a solution. I'd
hate to have you drop the matter when all remaining to do is to
file your report with me.

Crisman is willing to contribute his share. I hope you will too.
This thing must not be hushed up and forgotten, It's much too
importent to the people of America, if not the wrld. And no
censorship of the matter is legal. You needn't feer that angle.
You certainly did a bang-up job of investigation, also you wrote
one of the best articles about your June 24 experience I've ever
seen. Please do the same on this last business. You Gwe it to
those two men tho were killed.

I'd also like to know what developed on those pictures you took
of those "dicks", or whatever they weree

In short, I'd like to have you continue to keep in contact
with me, and relay to me anything furtier you learn.

In turn, I'll give you the whole story, which I'm just about
ready to break (not in the newsparers). And if it was as
G@angerous as you seem to suspect, I'm efraid I'd have been
® corpse long agoé

But, and this is all you need remember, those disks are not
red corpaseles in your eyeball, and they are not something
we can forget about with an ostrich in the sand ettitude.
we've got to solve them, public hysteria or no. As for that
hysteria, if laughing is hysterie, that's all the hysteria
I've noticed

By all means, I want to thank you for the work you've done,
You know your business, and you handled it like e major.
But I'm hoping you do the easy part now and get that report
on paper.

A check for your June 24 article is going out to yous

Sincerely yours,

ebekus a4

R. Ae Palmer

VENTURE PRESS

305 STUDIO BUILDING
1718 SHERMAN AVENUE
EVANSTON, ILLINOIS

June 26, 1947

Mr. Kenneth Arnold,
Boise, Idaho

Dear Mr. Arnold:

I have just read an account in the Chicago Tribune concerning
an aerial train composed of at least 9 units shaped like a
pie-plate and silvery in color, traveling at 1200 m.p.h. near
Mount Ranier, as witnessed by you while flying in the vicinity.

This is quite important to me, because I have in my possession
numerous independent confirmations of what you saw, although none
in as great detail as your account. I am interested in publishing
an article in our magazine, written from a personal account by
yourself, and accompanied by pix of yourself, plane, and rough
sketches by yourself, of what you saw.

If you care to do this for me, I am prepared to pay our usual
rates of 2¢ perword, plus $5.00 for each photograph you can
Provide, or for each sketch which can be used by our art staff
to illustrate the artiole.

Included in this material, we'd like a short biographical
sketch of yourself as "author background" material. The
article would appear under your by-line,

If you are not interested, I wuld at least appreciate a
letter from you, confirming the newspaper story.

Very truly yours, 5

Raymond A. Palmer
Editor, The Venture Press

In your reply, please use airmail.

iw p- actly

os, Faved Tiel =)

eg oe ee

/ GS ther Sipe ~aee fe
iz FEES] Melle EG

“

res

Ma Die ea yi

RETURN RECEIPT

Received from the Postmaster the Registered or Insured Article, the original
number of which appears on the face of this Card.

Date of delivery .. oy 194.7

OVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 16—12421

Post Office Bepartment

OFFICIAL BUSINESS

PENALTY FOR PRIVATE USE TO AVOID PAYMENT OF POSTAGE, $300

Street and aaa
or Post Ofice Box,

REGISTERED ARTICLE

fo ER AL cet «<I ce OSa
INSURED PARCEL

fry
eae
FBI SEATTLE 8-14-47

DIRECTOR FBI ROUTINE ¢)

BRUCE /ARMSTRONG. . Me Ao SHOLS. “FLYING Discs INTERNAL SECURTTY 54 i
NEWSPAPER SEATTLE POST INTELLIGENCER CARRIED ARTICLE ON AUGUST MN re
TWELVE OF REPORT OF FLYING DISCS SEEN B NE BRUCE ARMSTRONG OF

BOEING AIRCRAFT COMPANY, AND M. NICHOLS, ONE ONE TWO FIVE, SOUTH

WEST ONE HUNDRED AND SECOND STREET, SEATTLE. INVESTIGATION

SIGHTING BY ARMSTRONG REVEALS OBJECT TO HAVE BEEN PIECE OF

PAPER WHICH HAD BEEN SEEN BY CONTROL TOWER AT BOEING FIELD. IN-

) VESTIGATION O& SIGHTING BY Me. A. NICHOLS INDICATES OBJECT WAS

-77g7¢ —H?
A WEATHER BALLON. LETTER TO FOLLOW. \ | Ce Ce,

WILCOX

A.AND H_PLS

J

S-1S PM OK FBI W

rEDEHAL BUREAU OF invesHiGATiO.. /
U.S, DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE. t is
GOMMUNIGATIONS SECTION Ny,
auc 24947 wi
4
TELETYPE ;
yi
( QI
WASHINGTON 17 FROM PHILADELPHIA g-T-47 9- , pM DST
_AIRECTOR FBI URG cent |
OT ae AY

TFLYING OBJECT REPORTED OVER PHILA. AUGUST SIX, N

EEN FORTY-SEV EN.

SABOTAGE. Tt HE PHILADELPHIA INQUIRER ON AUGUST SEVEN, NINETEEN

FORTY SEVEN CARRIED ITEM CONCERNING FLYING OBJECTS OBSERVED OVER

PHILA, ON EVENING OF AUGUST SIX, FORTY SEVEN« PEOPLE REPORTED AS
OBSERVING SUCH INTERVIEWED BY PHILAs OFFICE, AND SUBSTANTIALLY
FURNISHED FOLLOWING INFORMATION. AT TEN FORTY FIVE, AUGUST SIX,

NINETEEN FORTY SEVEN, A BLUISH WHITE FLAMING OBJECT WAS OBSER

A HEIGHT OF ONE PHOUSNAAK THOUSAND FEET OR MORE OVER PHILADELPHI ue

PROCEEDING FROM A NORTHEASTERLY TO A SOUTHW LY DIRECTION.

THIS OBJECT LEFT A AMME TRAIL OF SMOKE WI uger LAST a eon ABOUT

2G 44 ty

SIGHT OF SUCH OBJECT. PEOPLE OBSERVING THE SAME ad p seOhs atk AND

TWO SECONDS AND W HISSING OR BUZZING S ND WAS” hubs Eisagh Tip

pS}
RELIABLE, AND INCLUDE A POReases FORMER ARMY AIR CORPS [LOT.
WS

DOES NOT BELIEVE ABOVE MENTIONED ore iam ile PROPELLED PLANE
SINCE THE ACCOMPANY ING SOUND WAS NOT AS LOUD AS THAT MADE BY JET

PROPELLED PLANES. HE ESTIMATED ABOVE OBJECT TRAVELED AT A RATE OF
END PAGE ONE 5% 7 \ ‘

ye 2
4, ae ae) thiA Coat
L286 eo
fus 8 9 56 ee
se

et ® gecut™
NTR.

itor oF + aly
ig |

Langer

PAGE TWO
ABOUT FOUR HUNDRED TO FIVE HUNDREL
MADE BY ARMY AND NAVY INTELLIGENCE F

OF THE PHILA. OFFICE TO DETERMINE IF EIT

ANY EXPERIMENTAL WORK ON NEW TYPES OF PLANES IN VICINITY OF PHILA.

THEY WILL ADVISE PHILA. OFFICE IN NEXT S SRAL LETTER OF
DETAILS WILL FOLLOW.
BOARDMAN

HOLD PLS

tE GT ice TOR

.S. DEPT. OF JUSTIL
Aun 8 5.37 AM CU?

‘STANDARD FORM NO. 64 © 5 © -=— : .
” Office a . een STAruw OVERNMENT

65-480
{he ie t0 ‘py woe FBI DATE: August 20, 1947

i FROM A. Butte

~ sobli 4 .” aes DIS¢S “A ae

Refer teletype to the Bureau dated August 15, 1947.

Enclosed please find the newspaper account carried by the Twin Peas, ri
o "Times News" on August 15, together with a sheet of paper on which Pat
Ce Gesanted to sketch his impressions of the instrument which he claims ie
have seen,

Concerning URIE's sketches, it may be noted that he believed the
rolled outer edge which he attempted to create in his drawing to have been about
a foot through. URIE likewise believed that the tubing or exhaust flame which
he and his sons claim to have seon was about a foot through and extended at
least to the back end of the device, The flame did not appear to taper off nor
to widen out toward the back.

BILLY and stated that they could see a knot on the side of
the device fram which flames were shooting, and that they could see day-
light between the exhaust flame and the side of the device, The flames did not
leave any smoke or odors

The URIE boys thought that the "side view" sketch should show that
J] the device was more sharply angled from bottom to top, while URIE himself
thought that it was more streamlined end curved. URIE said that the instru-
ment came to a pointed or rounded top. DEFERRED Toon Die

In his notations, URIE mistakenly said that he had seen it on Thurs-
day. During interview, he stated that it actually had been on Wednesday,
_ August 13, 1947, when he and his sons saw the contrivance about 1:00 Pe Me

URIE explained that he had sent his boys to the river to get some
rope from his boat. When he thought they were overdue, he went outside his
tool shed to look for them, He noticed them about 300 feet away looking in
the sky and he glanced up to see what he called the flying disc. He said he
could only see it for a moment before it disappeared behind a hill which
obscured his view.

URIE further stated that the contrivance was about seventy-five
feet in the air, URIE resides in the depths of the Snake River Canyon, which
is about four hundred feet deep and twelve hundred feet across et that places
According to his acc t+, the contrivance was about three hundred feet below
the rim of the cam and he saw it against the steep walls of the canyon on

the far side. He, iribed its color as sky blue and stated that he doubted
if it could be y t the skye He likewise said tht it was purely by

{Si 1397 ¢- [iS

.y
i 3A SEP vgisay)
Rey

EX of see

did not spin like a tops Dw

270 Now fr 6 f
My i al

INDEXED

BI 65-480 r <

As the machine went by the URIE place, the trees over which it almost
directly passed (Morman Poplars) did not just bend with the wind as if a plane
had gone by, but, in URIE's words, “spun around on top as if they were ina
vacuums"

KEITH URIE, eight years of age, said he first saw the machine coming
down the canyon, heading from east to west and following the contours of the
ground, BILLY, age ten, saw it almost immdiately. Both watched it fly out
of sight behind a tree in a matter of moments, They said they then ran to
their Father and learned that he too had seen the machines

URIE seemed completely sincere about the incident. He said his wife
and daughter were in the house at the time end had not seen the machine, He
questioned his brother, who also lives in the canyon, but his brother had been
eating at the time and had seen nothing. URIE and his two boys mintained
that they had never before seen one of the discs, URIE, when interviewed, ap-
peared to be a sober, middleeaged man.

JO! OSNAN, the"Times News" reporter who originally furnished
Special Agents with information about the incident, likewise stated that URIE
appeared completely sincere about the machines

-

_.~ No further attempt was made to locate L. )\namams, inasmuch as
Je He/BROW, who was with HAWKINS at the time, was interviewed. BROWN's naw
was withheld fran the newspaper because HAWKINS and BROWN were fishing at Sale
mon dam while BROWN was supposed to have been working in Twin Falls,

BROWN said simply that he and HAWKINS could hear a roar, They looked
up and could see two instruments flying at a great height, which BROWN mentioned
might have been between four thousand and six thousand feet. However, he said
he had no idea how large the devices were and consequently, they may have been
several miles away. He said thet he and HAWKINS were satisfied they had seen
somthing and they were very doubtful that they had seen two planese

RJGsFO'"S

Ence (2)

ENCLOSURE

TWIN FALLS, IDAHO,

F RIDAY, “AUG UST 1 15, 1947

Heads Up, Folks! The Dises

Sipe view

ranch, It seemed to be powered by

*

BOTTOM VIEW

This is an artist's conception of the flying disc that A. ©.
sweeping through Snake river canyon

Urie saw

ix miles west of Blue Lakes

Jets emitting a fiery glow on both
*  *

Flying Saucer Reported F
At 1,000 Miles Per Hour; Two Others Are Seen

Are Flying Ag

END V

| sides, and could well be the inspira

hats, such as a “flying saucer’
staff engraving)
* *

eR

creation,

_ @&> =

iew

n for something ne
(Drawing by Vic

women’s
Goertzen-

*%

By JOHN BROSNAN
Just as Magic Valley and the
nation were starting to let go of}
lampposts after reeling under a
welter of flying saucer reports, two
more Twin Falls county men re~
vived speculation on the myster
with vivid descriptions of discs they
saw.
lq From A. C. Urie, who operates
the Auger Falls Trout farm six
miles west of Blue Lakes ranch in
ke river canyon, came perhaps
most detailed account of one of

the fast-flying objects the nation
has yet produced.

‘The flying saucer Urie saw was
skimming along through Snake river
canyon at a. height
feet at 1p. m. Wednesday.
a, m, the same day, L. W.

‘Twin Falls county
former county
, also saw
objects soaring along at a great
height near Salmon dam 40 miles
southwest of Twin Falls
Here is Urie's eye-witness

At 9:30
Hawk-
mmi:

de-

of about 75 |

scription of the flying discs seen. by
him and his son, Keith, 8, and Billy,
10

‘I obtained a close-up view
the flying saucer as it passed by the
trout farm at 1 p. m. Aug. 13 going
down Snake river canyon at a height
of about 75 feet from the canyon

of

heriff | floor. I would estimate the speed
two circular | at about 1,000 miles per hour.”

Urie explained that the incident |
occurred while the two boys were
coming across the river from the

north side in a boat. He had be- |

come concerned about what: was de~
laying them, and had walked down
| toward the river to see if they we
all right

“T had a side view at a distance
of about 300 feet and almost on a
level with the thing,” Urie con-
tinued. “Two my boys, Keith
and Billy, were below me and they

Iso saw it at about a 45-degree
angle. They both got a bottom and
a side view, and we were all look-
| ing at it from the south side of the
(Continued on Page 8, Column 6)

of

TIMES-NEWS, TWIN FALLS, IDAHO

made

jety of

Rage is done to the

ained, as the
| burrow into a pod at night, eat into
the seeds, drop to the ground the
next day, and enter another pod
the next night. He recommended
use of five per cent DDT dust
jat the rate of 20 pounds per acre,
and said the first application should
be on now.

Next speaker was W. D. Hay of
the PMA federal-state seed labora-
| tory at Sacramento, Calif. He di
|cussed the movement of bean seed
in interstate commerce, how the
| seed should be labeled, how to name
different varieties, and the validity
of name assignments.

Carl Blackburn, of the Idaho Crop
Improvement association, discussed
the general organization of that
group and spoke of its measures for
seed certification.

The delegates then adjourned to
Clear Lakes resort for a fish fry.

The Hospital |

beds only were avail-

Twin Falls News in Brief

it Here
Aurelia Stark, Portland, Ore.,
arriving here soon to visit Mr. and

A daughter was born Thursday
to Mr. and Mrs, Rudy Wageman,
Filer, at the Twin Falls county
| general hospital maternity home.

| Return From College
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Van Engelen
and Fred Van Engelen have re-
turned from Moscow where they at
tended the summer session of the
University of Idaho.
BREV
Miss Povey Visits
Kathleen Povey,
instructor at Twin Falls high school,

teaches Spanish in a high school at
South Pasadena, Calif.

Auto Recovered
Clifford J. Roth, 529 Fifth avenue
north, reported the theft of his
automobile from near the Legion
hall to Twin Falls police at 5:42 p.
m. Thursday and 18 minutes later
reported he had recovered the ve-
hicle.
Visits Schuberts
Agnes Schubert,
Calif.,

Monterey’ Park,
her brother and

and Mrs. Mel

visiting
sister-in-law, Mr.
Schubert, this month. Miss Schu-
bert, former art instructor at Twin
Falls high school, now teaches in
California.

Attend Funeral

Out-of-town persons who attend-
ed the Donald Spencer funeral in-
clude Mrs. George Robbins, Ingle-|
wood, Calif.; Mr. and Mrs. Clifton
Adams, Mr. and Mrs. Ernie Vidun,
Wayne and Dorothy Adams, and
Mrs. Norma Lou Veneman, all Po-
catello; Mrs. Sarah Adams, Mrs.
| Will Severe, Mr. and Mrs. Lyman
| Adams, Mr. and Mrs. Orvil Adams,
Mr. and Mrs. Howard Adams, Mr.
and Mrs. Ellsworth Adams, all Oak-
ley; Mrs. Judson Tolman, Logan,|
Utah, and Mrs. Alice Miller, Salt
[rate City.

William Munger,
38, Passes Here

| William H. Munger, 38, 305 Locust
| street north, died at 11 a. m. Friday

former Spanish |

is visiting here this week. She now|

Marriage License

Kenneth Miracle and Esta Jay
Pearson, both of Twin Falls, received
a marriage license Thursday at the
courthouse.

Rector Returns
The Rev. E. Leslie Rol
the Episcopal Church of
sion, and Mrs. Rolls
Thu y from Tacoma,
where they spent their vacation.

| Return to Kansas
E. L. Hoffman and son,
Eugene, with Lucille Gahr, has re-
| turned to Kansas City after vis!
Mr. and Mrs. H. B. Hog
| Hogue is his mothe

his

On Trip to East
Mrs. John, Hawes and her nephew,
Pat Boland, have gone to Boston
and New York City on a two-week's
| Mareen to visit relatives.
| Visiting Sister
Mrs. Robert
Colo., iv visiting
Kenneth Kail. Mrs. Swanson
rmor resident of Rupert.

Denver,
Mr
is a

Swanson,

her sister

Bee Permit
Ax plication for a permit to build
@ 12 by 20-foot private garage of
) Mame construction Wao filed Friday
jin the office of the city clerk by
la M. Vazquez, 0 Elm street,
who estimated the cost at $400.

| Moose to Meet

| Members of the fellowship ee
of the Moose lodge will meet

|12:30 p. m. Sunday at the ‘Moos

| hall officials announced Friday.

|Refreshments will be served by

| Women of the Moose.

| Harry Piper, 4;
| Claimed by Death

BUHL, Aug. 15—Harry Sylvester
| Piper, 71, Buhl plumber since 1926,
died at 9:20 p. m. Thursday at the
‘Twin Falls ‘county general hos.
pital. from complications following
| an emergency operation.

Mr. Piper was born. June 6, 1875,
in Emporia, Kans. and came to
Idaho in 1926.

He is survived by
Nettie Clussman
daughters, Mrs. Har

his wife, Mrs,
Piper; three
Kinter, Buh!

1, Twin Falls,

our Parleys
Set on Cassia

School Pla

(From Page One)
Sublet; 14, Almo; 24, Hazel;
Bridye; 30, Springdale; 31, View,
|32, Moulton.

‘The above districts would be
|corporated into one district
|would elect five trustees.
| districts would be divided thus
District 1, all of Burley school dis
trict west of Overland and the Bu:
ley-Oakley highway; district
Jof Burley school district east
Overland and the Burley-Oakley | 4
highway; district 3, present districts
of Declo, Albion, Springdale
View; district 4, Oakley,
Moulton; and district
Malta, Elba, Sublet,
Jand all present
tory.

Basin,

5, Heglar,
Almo, Bridge
unorganized terri-

| Funeral Held for

| Infant at Wendell

WENDELL, Aug. 15 — Graveside |
services were held Thursday eve-|
ning for Marian Kay Ems, Wendell.
jane infant daughter of Mr. and
|Mrs. Kenneth Ems died at birth
Thursday morning.

She is survived by her parents; a
brother). Kenneth Ray,
and a sister, Janet LaRae,
|in the Wendell cemetery
the direction of the Fi
| tuary.

Burial
was under
ier mor=

J enkins May Try
| Run Tests Friday

WENDOVER, Utah, Aug. 15 (P)—
Ab Jenkins, holder of most of the
world’s land speed records for dis-
tances of 50 miles or more, may be-
gin late tomorrow test runs in pre;
aration for his newest record as-
| sault.

Bud Winfield of Los Angeles, de-
signer of the low-slung Mobil spe-
cial that Jenkins will drive, pro-
nounced the car “ready to go.”

The runs will be made on an 11%

war track on the Bonne-

alt flats, 120 miles west. o}

Salt Lake City. Jenkins, former S sah

Lake City mayor, hoped to make
| his official runs early next we

|

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
UNITED STATES
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

OFFICIAL, BUSINESS

Oe)

ENCLOSURE TO BUREAU

Butte File 65-480

‘Saucer’ Seen
Flying Down
Snake Gorge

(From Page One)
river facing toward the north, The
boys saw it coming about half a
mile up the canyon, and we all lost
sight of it in less than a mile.”

While the impression was. still
vivid in their minds, the three got
together and made rough sketches
of what they had seen. These, in
turn, were the basis for the artist’s
conception of the strange affair by
Vic Goertzen of Twin Falls for the
‘Times-News.

“It was all one color—sort of a
light sky blue with a red, tubular
‘fiery glow at the side of the top or
Khood,” Urie continued.

“Zhe canyon floor is rough at
hat qparticular point, and it rode
'up and down over the hills and hol-
lows at a speed indicating some
|type of control faster than the
} reflexes of man. It 1s my opinion

that it is guided by instruments and

be powered by .atomic energy,

as it made very little noise—just a
w-i-s-h as it passed by.”

}|. Urie described the size as ‘about

20 feet long by 10 feet high and
10 feet wide, giving it an oblong
shape. It might be described as look-
ing like an inverted pie-plate or
broad-brimmed straw hat that had
been compressed from two sides,

Pressed for his candid opinion of
Just what it was, Urie said that he
was convinced that there was some-
thing to this flying saucer situation,
“I know a number of the people who
have also seen them and I know
that they're not just imagining
something or trying to get their
names in the paper,” Urie com-
mented.

“I do know that it scared the boy
and made me feel pretty uneas
he added.

‘Tracing down a rumor that County
Commissioner Hawkins had seen an
unusual object in the air on the
same day as Urie’s experience, the
‘Times-News called him at his Filer
home.

“Yes, I did,” he replied without
hesitation. “I'll have to admit I’ve
been skeptical all along until I saw
it with my own eyes. I can’t sa
what it, was, but I can say there's
something in the air.”

Hawkins related that while at
Salmon dam Wednesday morning,
a sound resembling the echo of a
motor caused him to look upward,
and there he saw two circular ob-
jects that reflected light. They were
traveling at a great speed and
higher than most airplanes, accord-

g to Hawkins.

Aside from this, he declined to
add details, except to say, “There's
something in the air.

His. general description, however,
corresponded. closely to those of
hundreds of persons who reported
seeing flying saucers after Kenneth

Boise businessman, had
touched off the deluge by telling of

while he was flying in his private
plane in Washington.

‘Thereafter, the nation became in-
creasingly flying saucer conscious,
creating a state of mind that made
it possible for four teen age Twin
Falls boys to cause a mild sensa-
tion when they built a model flying
disc and tossed into a local yard
July 10. This was subseuently re-
vealed as a hoax, following investi-
gation by the army and FBI.

Thereafter the saucer reports
tapered off into a few scattered in-
cidents until the question. was re-
vived by this week’s occurrences,

Speculation has ranged from
mention that the discs could be
army or navy guided missile experi-
ments, or that they could be similar
experiments by some foreign coun-
try, to “something out of this
world.”

Whatever, they are, a lot of people
have seen “something.”

OUT OUR WAY

LET THAT
ALONE, YOU
FATHEAD, AN!
I1( GO ON ABOUT

YOUR BUSINESS:

THE BUMP-OF|

SIDE GLANCES

COPR. 1946 BY REA SERVICE, INC.

“Tf you quit driving to worl
save enough money to buy Ju
the yard!”

CARNIVAL

NES q@ 5

LL Office. Mem wilt + UNITED S GOVERNMENT

TOM Ge ue Oat DATE: August 20, 1947
FROM

Authority

B, ‘
SORIEE? NND 90986

There is attached hereto x oO memoranda dated July 24,
1947, amd July 16, 1947, concern’ E 1d Engineer, Radio
Corporation of America, Dal » Texas, “16 N : 29th Street, Oklahoma
City, Oklahoma, and Kenne eas Box 387, ise, Idaho. These memoranda
were made available to Spe ~W he liaison Section
by General Schulgen of the Army Ai wees Intelligence. General Schulgen
requested that the Bureau comluct a background investigation of these two
individuals mentioned in the attached ince t+ re among the
first to sight the alleged-flying discs. He indicated that he desired that
the investigation be directed toward ascertai
these individuals have any subversive
or not they had any ulterior i

uake

tes die casera Cele
urity Section.

Attachment vA

OCAPN/KDS: cp

#37241 24 July 1947

MEMORANDUM TO THE SECURITY OFFICER, OCAMA, TINKER FIELD.

SUBJECT: BYRON B. SAVAGE, Field Engineer, Radio Corporation
of America, Dallas, Texas. Residence: 416 N. W. 29h Street,
Oklahoma City, Oklahome, )

RE: Flyind Disc.

On 23 July 1947, BYRON B, SAVAGE was interviewed at his residence,
416 N. W. 29th Street, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, relsting to his alleged
viewing of a flying dise over the vicinity of Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.

Subject, whose age is 38, advised he is married and has one child,
end is presently the holder of a Private Pilot's License, No. 39101
(Single Engine, Land), Subject averred he has extensively studied electron-
ics, sound engineering end aeronautics, and his present occupation, which is
Field Engineer for Radio Corporation of America, offices of which are
located in Dallas, Texas, is that of installing theater sound equipment.
SAVAGE stated that between the days 17 May to 21 May 1947, just-after dusk,
he observed an object which he believed to be a small aircraft in the south.
SAVAGE advised that the sun had just gone dow and the moon had not arisen
on the horizon, SAVAGE related thet he and his wife had just departed
their residence and had started to enter their car in the driveway at
416 N. W. 29th Street, Oklahoma City. He judged the time to be between
8:30 pem. end 9:00 pem., and the lights from the city of Oklahoma City
appeared to be shining on this object when he first sew it. He judged the
object to be about 160° in the south when he first sew it, and as it moved
toward him he remarked to his wife that "a big white plane was coming over.”

SAVAGE stated that when this object was at a 45° angle from him, he
realized it was not a conventional type aircraft, end it appeared elliptical
et first end as it moved closer it appeared perfectly round and wes flats
SAVAGE advised the object, which appeared to him as e disc, had no appearance
of being spherical and had a ratio of diameter to the thickness of approxi-=
metely 10 to 1, appearing thicker in the center, but this could not be
positively ascertained, SAVAGE judged the object to be at ean altitude of
between 10,000 and 18,000 feet, and it left no trailing effects. SAVAGE
related that it appeared to be in bulk as big as the bulk of six B-29s at
an altitude of epproximately the same height. SAVAGE advised that the object
was in his vision approximately 15 to 20 seconds and travelled at a speed
which he judged to be approximately three times that of jet-propelled aircraft.

os

2 iy
Memo“to the Security Officer, OCGAMA, Tinker Field, dta 7724/47, File
3724-1,

SAVAGE stated thet there were no protrusions on this object end as it
went by he listened for a sound of noise, and at one time thouzht he dis-
tinguished a swishing sound like the rushing of air. This swishing sound
occurred a few seconds after this object had passed him. SAVAGE averred
this sound wes not very loud end did not last very long, end it is very
possible that the sound could heave been his imagination or expectation, as
he wes not sure of the sound, SAVAGE related thet he called his wife to
see this object but it had disappeared before she could focus her eyes on
it. Subject stated that the object appeared to diminish in size and
speed as it moved eways and it wes moving in a direction of 350° to the
north. Subject/steted thet the object appeared to be frosty white in
color et all times,

SAVAGE advised that he has held a pilot's certificate since 1934 and
has been flying since 1929, He advised that he would be slad to answer eny
further inquiries end will cooperate in every way possidle. SAVAGE steted
he was sure this object was not a meteor and in his opinion it must be
radically built and powered, probably atomic.

a c COPY
(Pas » 5 Incident
oe 4AF 1208 I

16 duly 1947
MEMORANDUM FOR. TE FICER IN CHARGEs

1. On-12 July 1947, Kenneth Arnold, Box 387, Boise, Idaho,
viewed in regerd to the report by Mr, Arnold that he saw 9
objects flying over the Cascede Mountein Range of Washington
State on July 25th. Mr. Arnold volunterily sgreed to give the interviewer
ritten report of exactly what he hed seen on the above mentioned dete.
The written report of Mr. Arnold is attached to this report as Exhibit A,
AGENT'S NOTES: Mr, Arnold is a man of 32 yeers of age, being married md
the father of two children, He is well thought of in the community in
which he lives, being very much the family men end from all appearances
a@ very good provider for his family. Mr. Arnold has recently purchased a
home on the outskirts of Boise, recently purchased a $5,000 airplene in
which to conduct his business to the extent of which is explained in the
attached exhibit. It is the personal ion of the interviewer that Mr,
4rnola actually saw whet he stated thet he sew, It is difficult to believe
that a men of Mr. Arnold's character and apparent integrity would state
et he saw objects end write up a report to the extent that he did if he
did not see them To go further, if Mr. Arnold can write a report of the
character thet he did while not having seen the objects that he claimed he
sew, it is the opinion of interviewer that Mr. Arnold ie in the wrong
business, that he shou be writing Buck Rogers fiction. Mr. Arnold is
very outspoken end somewhat bitter in his opinions of the lesders of the
U. S. Army Air Forces and the Federel Bureau of Investigatién for not having
made an investigation of this matter sooner. To put all of the statements
mede by Mr. Arnold in this report would make it a voluminous volune. However,
efter having checked an aeronautical map of the erea over which Mr. Arnold
claims that he saw the objects it wes determined thet all statements meade by
Mr. Arnold in regerd to the distances involved, speed of the objects, course
of the objects and size of the objects, could very possibly be fact: The
distences mentioned by Mr, Arnold in his report are within a short distance
of the actual distences on aeronautical charts of this area, although Mr.
Arnold has never consulted aeromattical charts of the type the Army uses.
Mr. Arnold stated that this business hed suffered greatly since his report
on July 25 due to the fact that et every stop on his business routes, large
crowds of people were waiting to question him as to just what he had seen,
Mr. Arnold stated further thet if he, set any time in the future, sew anything
in the sky, to quote Mr. Arnold directly, “if I sew a ten story building

FRANK M. BROWN, S/A, CIC 4th AF

saat Nt ae
FING AIST ETO

Le ae

Incident
4AF 1208 I

flying through the air I would never say a word about it", due to the
fect that he has been ridiculed by the press to such en extent thet he

of the majority of the population of

is practical a moron in the eyes
the United States.

1 Incl: Exhibit "A"

FRANK M. BROW,

SOME LIFE DATA ON NNETH ARNOLD

I was born Merch 29, 1915 in Subeke, Minnesote. My father's
neme was Edward Erb Arnold; my mother's maiden neme was Bertha
E. Barden. Iwas e resident of Minnesota until’ I was six yeers
old when my family moved to Scobey, Montana, where they home-
steaded, My grandfether, Rolend C. Arnold also homesteaded in

Scobey, Montena, and became quite prominent in political circles

along with Burton K, Wheeler, the femous Montene senator,

I went to grede school and high school et Minot, North
Dakota. I entered scouting at twelve years of age end achieved
the rank of Eagle scout before I was fourteen. My former scout
executive was H. H. Prescott, now a regional commissioner for
the Boy Scouts in Kenseas City, Kansas.

As a boy, I was interested in athletics and was selected
as an ellestete end in 1932 and 1933 in the stete of North
Dakote. I entered the U. S. Olympic traals in fancy diving in
1932; I wes a Red Cross Life Saving Examiner during the years
of 1932, 'S3 and '34, ugh imming end diving at scout
camps end the municipal pool in Minot, North Dekota. I went
to the University of Minnesota, where I swam end did fancy
diving under Neils Thorpe, end elso played. footbell under Bernie
Biermen, but upon entering college I was unable to continue my
football career because of en injured knee, ly high school foot=
ball coach was Glenn L, Jerrett, who is now the head football
coach of the University of North Dekota. I had little or no
finences, and my ambition in furthering my education in college

B10 9-2 a a

Sree OS IaIN
“Page 2 - Some Life dete on Kemeth érnold

was through my athletics. 4s a boy in Minot, North Dakote, I
did e good deal of dog sled recing, placing first with my-dog
in 1930 in the Lions Club Dog Derby.

In 1938 I went to work for Red Comet, Inc. of Littleton,
Coloredo, a menufacturer of automatic fire fighting espparetus.
In 1939 I wes made district manager for them over ® part of the
western states, and in 1940 I established my own fire control
supply known es the Greet Western Fire Control Supply. I have
been working as an independent fire control engineer since,
end I hendle, distribute, sell end install all types of auto-
metic and manual fire fighting equipment in the rural areas over
five western states.

My flying experience sterted as a boy in Minot, North
Dekote, where I took my first flying lesson from Earl 1. Vance,
who was originally from Great Falls, Montena. Due to the high
cost et that time, I was unable to continue my flying and did
not fly of any great consequence until 1943. I was given my
pilot certificate by Ed Leach, a senior inspector of
Portland, Oregon, and for last three years have owned my
own airplane covering my entire territory with same end flying
from forty to one hundred hours per month since. Due to the
fact thet I use an airplane entirely in my work, in Januery
of this year I purchased a new Callair airplene, which is en
sirplene designed for high altitude take-offs end short rough

field usage.

In the type of flying I do, it tekes a great

<-NFIDENTIAE-

practice end judgment to be able to land in most eny cow

pasture snd 2 without injuring your eirplenes; the
runways ere very limited end the altitude is very high in
geome of the fields and places I have to go in my work. To
date, I have landed in 832 cow pastures in mountein meedows,

and in over ea thousend hours a flat tire has been my greatest

mishap.

wy

(A

B

FBI SEATTLE S-14-47
“DIRECTOR FBI URGENT
DQ HY
Le. Re BRUMMETT. SIDPDECKER. FLYING DISCS. INTERNAL SCURITY=X. 7}
Brad V

¥

AUGUST FOURTEEN MeRMMONK NINETEEN FORTYSEVEN SEATTLE POST INTELLIGENCER
PUBLISHED ARTICLE TO EFFECT THAT Le rofeRuimert, Box TWO FIVE FOUR RED-
MOND, WASH, AND SIDNEY DECKER BOX TWO NINE SIX REDMOND, WASHINGTON HAD
SIGHTED TwO DISCS AT APPROXIMATELY NINE AM AUGUST THIRTEEN NINETEEN
FORTYSEVEN. UPON INTERVIEW DECKER STATED THAT TWO VERY BRIGHT OJECTS
TRAVELING AT AN EXTREME RATE OF SPEED WERE NOTICED BY HIM AS ugas
STANDING NEAR THE REDMOND POST OFFICE. DECKER DESCRIBED THE OBJECTS

AS HAVING NO WINGS, NO TAIL, AND BOTH ENDS WERE TAPERED. DECKER ADDED
THAT THE OBJECTS RESEMBLED A BELLY TANK AND THAT THEY WERE NOISELESS.
THE OBJECTS WERE VERY BRIGHT AND TRAVELING IN A NORTHEASTERLY DIRECTION
OVER REDMOND, WASHINGTON, ONE A BIT BEHIND AND A LITTLE ABOVE THE OTHER
MAINTAINING EQUAL RATES OF SPEED FOR APPROXIMATELY EIGHT SECONDS Whe
WHICH TIME THEY DISAPPEARED FROM VIEW. DECKER ADDED THAT THEY WERE
HIGHER THAN A PLANE GENERALLY TRAVELS. BRUMMETT ADVISED THAT HE NOTICED
THE OBJECTS AND CALLED DECKERS ATTENTION TO THEM AND ALSO POINTED THEM
OUT TO. A MRS MAMIE ENGLISH. BRUMMETT STATED THAT HE SAW TWO OBJECTS

FLYING. AT A FORTYFIVE DEGREE ANGLE NORTHEASTERLY OVER na {7
“iw maquoouy |. (ac =o g7y f

poitt aU te-

‘Va
AWUNgas WNYSLN!

Westy Lt

» of |

PAGE TWO

TRAVELING AT LEAST THREE TIMES FASTER THAN A PLAN. BRUMMETT ADDED THAT
HE WATCHED THE OBJECTS FROM FIVE TO EIGHT SECONDS AT WHICH TIME THEY
DISAPPEARED FROM SIGHT. ACCORDING TO BRUMMETT THE OBJECTS WERE DESCRIBED
AS BEING NOISELESS, HAVING NO WINGS OR TAIL, LIGHTER THAN ALUMINUM,
TAPERED AT BOTH ENDS AND ONE STAYED A LITTLE BEHIND AND A BIT ABOVE THE
OTHER AND BOTH MAINTAIND EQUAL RATES OF SPEED. FROM BRUMMETTS OBSERVATIO
HE WAS UNABLE TO DECIDE WHETHER THE OBJECTS WERE FLAT OR ROUND. MRS
MAMIENENGLISH STATED THAT WHEN BRUMMETT CALLED HER ATENTION TO THE
OBJECTS SHE TOOK A PASSING GLANCE AT THE SKY AND COULD OFFER NO
DESCRIPTION OTHER THAN THEY LOOKED LIKE TWO SILVER BALLS TRAVELING

AT A FAST RATE OF SPEED.

END
SHOLD PLS

9-28 PM OK FBI WASH DC GAR

4. STANDARD FORM NO, 64

er
Office Memorandum ¢ UNITED S. * GOVERNMENT |

TO
iN

|\x/FROM
\
SUBJECT:

istoc
the

or

per ri

lemuria.
other resources in these

mong reade

COPIES DE
270 NOV 18 1964

Director, FE
Re: IG ‘Discs September 20, 1947

on to state that it was believed at the am a e was

tween the flying dise and the Murray I losion, and

that RA D PALMER, Chicago magazine editor, had employ RNOLD to investi-
gate and "cover!" the Murray Island explosion.

The article went on to state that on Aug ust 1, i » at Tacoma, Washington,
there a conference among officials of tt and Navy, who discussed
the possible relation between the Murray Island ext losion and the appearance
of flying discs. ARNOLD was supposed to have been in attendance at this
conference. At the conference, authorities brought samples of a lava oxide
metal, allegedly taken from the scene of the Murray Island explosion.

article stated that following the conference, two pilots left by plane
Hamilton Field, California, carrying samples of the lava oxide metal.
article further reported that the plane crashed near Hamilton Field,
ifornia, and it was conjectured that the plane had exploded by reason of
combustion of the lava. oxide metal it carried.
the above newspaper article, it should be noted that RAYMOND PADD
» start "exploiting" the appearance of the
Z discs, possibly to enhance the appeal of SHAVER's stories. It is
possible, therefore, that the entire flying dise theory was conceived by
PALMER and SHAVER

OAG:lab
1100-18999

y
i
é

erro tic Form No. 64
Lae

Office Memorandum * UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
> = % f/ s

bye TO: Director, FBI DATE: 9-L7—h7)
<—AFRom =: SAC, Anchorage
<p

SUBJECT: “Plying/Disks

Reference is made to Bureau Bulletin No. 42 dated July 30,
1947.

This is to advise that two army officers repprted to the
Office of the Director of Intelligence, headquarters Alaskan Department,
at Fort Richardson, Alaska, that they had witnessed an object passing
through the air at a tremendous rate of speed which could not be judged
as to miles per hour.

The first officer stated that his attention was attracted to
this airborne object, and he in turn pointed it out to the second of-
ficer. The object appeared to be shaped like a sphere and did not give
the impression of being saucer-like or comparable to a disk. The first
officer stated that it would be impossible to give minute details con—
cerning the object, but that it appeared to be approximately two or three
feet in diameter and did not leave any vapor ~ trail in the Lah in

Le

Both officers attempted to determine the apprexiaite altitude
of the object, and from a weather group stationed nearby it was de-
termined that cloud formations at the time the object was sighted were”
“scattered above 10,000 feet." The object was noted to be traveling
below the cloud formation.

The first officer stated that in his opinion the object ap-
peared to be metallic and was silver in color, mech like the color of
many airplanes.

The second officer stated substantially the same facts and
also pointed out that the object remined within his vision for ap-
proximately 15 to 20 seconds. When sighted, the object was traveling
due south at a speed considerably in excess of any plane. The second
officer stated that the object appeared to him to be approximately 10
feet in diameter and compared it to half the size of a-full moon on an
ordinary night. The second officer based the altitude at approximately
the same as the first offiter except for the fact that due to the size
he believed the object to be, he estimated the altitude to be only
approximately 3,000 or 4,000 feet. The object appeared broadside to
the second officer, and no evidence of a spinning motion or reflection
was noted. As to the color, the SS De a pointed out that it
appeared to be a dull metal ee

A
na

. Le user * pt?

OPIES DESTROYED P y wh hie

P70. NOV 18 1964

UNITS TWHYasy

on

uNnoas aya a

Wan!
4 S
HY 22 pang?

gani393"

Letter to Director, FBI
Re: Flying Disks

In conclusion, the second officer pointed out that one of
the remarkable features of this object was that it was definitely
traveling against the wind.

The exact date of the sighting of this object was not fur-
nished this office, and inasmch as it occurred previously to the re-
ceipt of Bureau instructions in this matter, no further investigation
is being conducted by this office wmless specifically requested to do
so by the Bureau.

100-1403
HLM: GWH

STANDARD,FORM No. 64 @ é

- Office Memorandum + ounirep staTES GOVERN a

\
Director, FBI DATE: September~t6\ 1947

SAC, Philadelphia

SUBJECT: FLYING OBJECT REPORTED OVER PHILADELPHIA ANAT
AUGUST 6, 1947 i =, ae
SABOTAGE + Ib

Remytel August 7 last. (va

Miss ELEANORANADDLE, 2114 Hobart Street, Philadelphia, who is employed
by the GEORGE R. GREENWALD MANUFACTURING COMPANY, 1524 Chestnut Street, Philg-
delphia, advised as follows: ‘\ oe

Between 10:30 and 10:45 p.m. on August 6, 1947, she was sitting on
the steps of her home with CEC INE. She was facing north and observed
a large white object traveling a very fast rate of speed to the south.

There was a buzzing sound, not too loud but plainly audible, just after this
object passed through the air. This white object left in its trait a thin
streak of smoke, which was grayish in color.

Miss CECELIA FINE, 5617 Arlington Street, Philadelphia, who is em-
ployed by the PRESSMAN & GUTMAN COMPANY, INC., Room 1140, P.S.F.S. Building,
Philadelphia, stated she was sitting on the steps of Miss NADDLE's home on

the evening of August 6, 1947, around 10:45 pems engaging in conversation
with Miss NADDLE, when Miss NADDLE atruptly stopped in the»middle of her con-
versation and appeared to be frightened. Miss FINE at that time was sitting
in a position in which she was facing south. She did not see any object in
the sky after noting Miss NADDLE's change of expression, but she did hear a
slight buzzing sound.

JOHN SNYDER, 1440 Vankirk Street, Philadelphia, an insurance agent,
who was a former pilot of B-24's in the Army Air Corps, advised as follows:

He was sitting on the steps of his home around 10:45 p.ms on August
6, 1947, with his wife; and his neighbors, the KELLY family, were sitting on
their steps next door to the residence of SNYDER. All of the above parties
were facing east. SNYDER noticed at this time an object, emitting a bluish-
white flame, passing quickly through the aire The object was traveling from
northeast to southwest. Using his experience in the Army Air Corps as a guide,
SNYDER estimated the above object was between 1000 and 3000 feet in the air
and traveling at a rate of between 400 to 500 miles an hour. This object dia /
not lose elevation as it passed through the air and left either smoke or a
condensation trail in its former path, which lasted for about two seconds.
A hissing sound accompanied the passing s object. This sound was moder-
ate and not nearly as loud as the nbfy ageompanying the passage of a rocket
ship. oA 16) hi

Oe

UNOS WNYBLN
Hid 4h | 992:

AAI ORR

LBs.
LNUNORS WAYSLN:

NUAT OL go:

G3AI3934

Director, FBI September 18, 1947

JOHN J. KELLY, 1442 Vankirk Street, who is a retired police officer
of the Philadelphia Police Department, advised as follows:

Around 10:45 p.m. on August 6, 1947, he and his wife were sitting on
the steps of their home, when KELLY noticed an object, resembling to him a
giant firecracker, pass quickly through the air. KELLY heard no noise, but
the object had completely passed from view in a southern direction within a
split second. It left a fiery trail for about 100 feet. August 6, 1947,
was a clear night, and no storm was brewing. KELLY was sure the object he
saw was no falling star, and he noted the above object did not seem to be
falling but maintained the same altitude.

The wives of SNYDER and KELLY verified the accounts of their husbands
as to the above-mentioned object.

It is to be noted that the SNYDERS and the KELLYS live in Northeast. .
Philadelphia near Oxford Circle, which is about ten miles removed from the
residence of Miss NADDLE. Miss NADDLE's residence is located in the western
part of Philadelphia. The Misses NADDLE and FINE are not known to the above-
mentioned KELLYS and SNYDERS. It is further noted the observation of Miss
NADDLE, the KELLYS, and the SNYDERS roughly correspond. All of the above
persons seem reliable and not the type to seek publicity or to spread rumors.

Miss NADDLE and JomblceLLy called the "Inquirer", Philadelphia news-
paper, and inquired if it could offer any explanation as to what they had
seen. A representative of that paper had advised Miss NADDLE and KELLY that
the object they saw may have been some product of an oil refinery or chemical
company in their neighborhood.

Both the Offices of Naval Intelligence and Army Intelligence in Phila-
delphia were requested by the Philadelphia Office to ascertain if either the
Army or the Navy was doing any experimental work on new types of planes or
equipment, in the vicinity of Philadelphia. ‘Such was done with negative re-
sults. The Office of Naval Intelligence indicated that an explosion had oc-
curred at the CHARLES LENNIG CHEMICAL COMPANY on August 6, 1947.

S. A. GIMBEL, Safety Department of the CHARLES LENNIG CHEMICAL COMPANY,
INC., 5000 Richmond Street, Philadelphia, advised as follows:

The above company is a manufacturer and distributor of chemicals.
A fire had occurred on a dump of the company on August 6, 1947, but was
quickly gotten under control. Such fire was confined to the company's prem-
ises and could not have been observed from outside the plant. The CHARLES

Director, FBI September 18, 1947

LENNIG COMPANY is about two and one-half miles southeast from Oxford Circle.
The account of the fire does not seem to fit into the general pattern of the
above-mentioned flying object, for itis noted that the flying object was
allegedly traveling from a position northeast of Oxford Circle to a south-
westerly direction in Philadelphia. GIMBEL pointed out that, to the best
of his knowledge, there are no oil refineries and chemical companies located
around Oxford Circle or north of such, but that all of the companies of this
type are several miles south of Oxford Circle.

All logical investigation having been conducted, no further action
will be taken on the instant matter unless advised to the contrary by the
Bureau.

FFB/ctg
98-1762

RECC YRDED

September 27, 1947

Major General George C. McDonald
Assistant Chief Air Staff - 2
The Pentagon

—/Al

Washington, D. C,
Dear General éeDondld:
The Federal Bureau of Investigation has been requested

by your office to assist in the investigation of reported Signt-
ings of flying discos.

My attention has been called to instructions disseminated
by the Air Forces relative to this matter. I have been advised
that these instructions indicate that the Air Forces would inter-
view responsible observers while the FBI would investigate incidents
of dises found on the ground, thereby relieving the Air Forces of
running down incidents which in many cases turned out to be “ash
ean covers, toilet seats and whatnot."

In view of the apparent understanding by the Air Forces
of the position of the Federal Bureau of Investigation in this
matter, I cannot permit the personnel and time of this organiza-
tion to be dissipated in this manner.

I am advising the Field Divisions of the Federal Bureau
of Investigation to discontinue all investigative activity regard- ,;%
ing the reported sightings of flying discs, and am instructing them “
to refer all complaints received to the appropriate Air Force e

representative in their area.

Sincerely yours,

=~ STANDARD Form No. 64 r) é

Rh Office Memorandum * UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO 3 THE DIRECTOR DATE: September 25, 1947

= Tolson
Ee A.

FROM : OD. M. IADD

SUBJECT: FLYING DI
ii S|

bet
The Bureau was requested by the Air Forces Intelligence to assist:
the Air Forces in attempting to arrive at an explanation of the above i
phenomena. The Air Forces indicated that the alleged sightings of flying Hise Hokeer——
discs might have been made by individuals of Communist sympathies for the
purpose of causing mass hysteria in the United States over the fear of a secret
Russian weapone The Bureau agreed to assist in the investigation of the reported
sightings, and the Field was advised in Bureau Bulletin No. 42, Series 1947, dated
duly 30, 1947, that they should investigate each instance which was brought to
their attention of the sighting of a flying dise in order to ascertain whether or
not it was a bona fide sighting, an imaginary one, or a pranke The results of the
investigation conducted by the Bureau Field Offices in this matter have failed to
reveal any indication of subversive individuals being involved in any of the
reported sightings.

The Bureau has received a communication in the captioned matter from
the Special Agent in Charge at San Francisco, dated September 19, 1947, which
attached a "restricted" letter that was furnished confidentially to the SAC at
San Francisco by Ijeutenant Colonel Donald L. Springer, A-2, Army Air Forces,
Hamilton Field, California, a copy of which is attached hereto. It is noted
that the letter, which is dated September 3, 1947, is signed "By Command of
Lieutenant General Stratemeyer" by Colonel Re He Smith, Assistant Chief of Staff
Intelligence, Headquarters, Air Defense Command, Mitchel Field, New York,’ and is
addressed to the Commanding Generals of the various Air Forces. This letter is
entitled "Cooperation of FBI with AAF on Investigations of ‘Flying Disc' Incidents."

This letter states in substance that it was the original intent of the
AC/AS-2, Headquarters, Army Air Forces that whereas the ADC Air Forces would
interview responsible observers, the FBI would investigate incidents of so-called
Gises being found on the ground. Further, it indicates that the services of the
FBI were enlisted in order to relieve the numbered Air Forces of the task of
tracking down all the many instances which turned out to be "ash can covers,
|} toilet seats and whatnot."

RECOMMENDATION:

It is recommended that the Bureau protest vigorously to the Assistant
Chief of Air Staff - 2. It is also recommended that the Bureau discontinue all
activity in this field and that the Bureau Field Offices be advised to discon=
tinue all investigations and to refer all complaints received to the Air Forces.
A proposed Bulletin is attached for your approval.
Attachment. conns?

SWR:AJB oT ‘| rat *

OO NPE

HEADQUARTERS
AIR DEFENSE COMMAND
Mitchel Fiela, New York

In reply
refer to:

D333 .5EX 3 September 1947

SUBJECT: Cooperation of FBI with AAF on Investigations of "Flying
Diso" Incidents.

Commanding Genrals, First, Second, Fourth, Tenth, Eleventh
end Fourteenth Air Forces
ATTENTION; Assistant Chief of staff, A-2

1. The Federal Bureau of Investigation has agreed to assist Air
Force Intelligence personnel in the investi gation of "flying disc"
incidents in order to quickly and effectively rule out what are pranks
and to concentrate on what appears to be a genuine incident.

2. It was the original intent of the AC/AS-2, Headquarters,
Army Air Forces that whereas the ADC Air Forces would interview respon-
sible observers whose names would be furnished by AAF, the FBI would
investigate incidents of so called "discs" being found on the ground.
The services of the FBI were enlisted in order to relieve the numbered
Air Forces of the task of tracking down all the many instances which
turned out to be ash can covers, toilet seats and whatnote

3. It is requested that each A-2 informally coordinate and
cooperate with the FBI, generally keeping the FBI informed of any
proposed calls that intelligence personnel will make on this subject.
Very shortly, with the separation of the AAF from the War Department,
a firm policy will be established to clarify the liaison arrangements
between A~2's and FBI Special Agents. Presently, it is considered
inadvisable to promulgate a formal interim policy -- only to have it
replaced in a month or so by another.

BY COMMAND OF LIEUTENANT GENERAL STRATEMEYER:

/s/ Re He SMITH
R. He SMITH
Colonel, GSC
Asst Chief of Staff-Intell.

pees tin

STANDARD Fonviggy 61 *, ) r

Office Men... .tAUm + UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO + MR. LADD ot j DATE: SEPTEMBER 23,

FROM : &§, G. FITCH Cy /
4 (

BERSEREE

SUBJECT: INSTRUMENT FOUND ON FARM NEAR
DANFORTH, ILLINOIS 3

es
a
SEES

Reference is made to a ey to Mre Harbo from Mr. Baughman io

on the above-captioned matter, dated September 3, 1947. The reference Mise ‘Sie —
memorandum indicates that the instrument has been examined by the Laborato

and the laboratory had contacted a Mrs. Whedon of the Army Engineers and she hey
t

indicated that the instrument had been used by the Air Forces on tests which be le
were classified as “Top Secrets

The memorandum indicates that Special Agent S. We Neynolds of the Liaison
Section contacted the Intelligence Division of the Air Forces and was advised that
Mrs. Whedon alluded that the instrument was used in "Operation Mogul." The instru-
ment was loaned to the Intelligence Division of the Air Forces who in turn forwarded
it to Wright Field. The report was received from Wright Field indicating the
instrument had no connection wi peration Mogul" or any other operation at Wright
Field. It was classified as a hi in view of the apparent discrepancy between
information developed from Mrs. Whedon and information received from Intelligence
Division of the Air Forces that the Bureau might wish to pursue this matter further.

Mre Zimmers of the Technical Iaboratory advised Mr. Reynolds of the Liaison
Section that Mrs. Whedon had told him that a Major Hopkins handled the Liaison in
Washington for the tests in which this instrument was used. Ijeutenant Colonel George
Garrett of the Intelligence Division of the Air Forces advised Special Agent Reynolds
that he contacted Major Hopkinse He advised that Major Hopkins has had ea great deal
of experience in radio and along technical lines. Major Hopkins advised Colonel
Garrett that the instrument could not have been used in the "Operation Mogul." Hopkins
indicated that from the pictures and particles recovered, it appeared to him to be a

part or portions of an old=type radio loud speaker. : f
In view of the information received from Major Hopkins, Colonel sue

stated that he was at a loss as to how to explain the actions of Mrs. Whedon other
than to say that she perhaps gave a false impression as to her knowledge of the var
instrument and the "Operation Mogul." Garrett pointed out that in view of the PIN
report received from Wright Field, together with the statement made by Major Hopkins,
he felt that there was sufficient evidence that this instrument was not used in any!
boy. 5. oa classified project and that in all probability it was just a hoax.

' eorce

RECOMMENDATION: It is recommended that this ee be forwarded to

4
-€2 994-142
xmD 32 oy cI .

DE: %@ OOTEE 19 yer

LEGENWE

P25 i 25 AN”
RECEIVED ae ‘ NIDA. ABORATOF

LIAISON SECTION r€ Bi

DEPT NF JUSTICE
8 1 02 AM 77

|

ry

TSNAD-2B/AG/bic
\,\ . \ 25 August 197

DECLASSIFIED

qv SUBJECTs Flying Saucer, Authority

NND 90986

TOs Commanding General
Aray fir Forces
Washington 25, De Ce
ATTN: AC/AS@2
Lt Col George Garrett

=

1. The specimens of an alleged "Flying Saucer" brought to this
Command by Colonel H, M. McCoy, which were obtained by the FBI and given
te It.Col Garrett, were examined to determine their connection, if any,
with the seecalied “Flying Saucers", or any project at Hy AMG, Wright
Field. The specimens were carefully examined by both technicians of the
Analysis Division (T-2) and Electronics Sub-division (T#3), The latter
organization stated that these specimens definitely had no connection
whatsoever with the "Mogul" project nor with any other research and devele
opment project of this Command,

2. It is also the opinion of this Command that these specimens
have no connection with the so-called "Flying Saucer" or "Disc", These
specimens, therefore, are considered as part of a hoax that could be per~
petrated by most anyone seeking publicity or for any other reasons.

3. The specimens shown in the attached photograph include frage
ments of an undeterminable shape made from plaster of paris or similar
ceramic and containing some electrical resistance wire for measurenent
or heating purposes. The condition of the ceramic indicates that the
resistance wire was heated electrically at one time or another. These
fragments could not be connected with any AMC project. ‘The other articles
at the top of the photograph reading from left to right are identi?
follows: A

¢ a

a An outmoded type of magnetic speaker diaphragm mad@’of alum-~
inum alloy, manufactured by The Wathaniel Baldwin Company of Salt Lake
City, tah, which was first patented May 1, 1910. This article cannot be
connected with any ANC project.

De The second and thim articles are bakelite coil forms

CORDED

> OG,AAR, Wash. DO” 25 August 1917
pjects Flying Saucers

> wrapped with ordinary thin enameled copper wire. These coils indicate
that they were skillfully uade at one time but were crudely rewrapped by
one not familiar with the art of making a coil, These coils also have no
connection with any AMO project.

CS. The fourth article is a metallic box which is the remains of
an electronic filter cmdenser made by the Polymet Manufacturing Company
of New York, Ne Y. This article also has no connection with any AMG proe
ject,

d. ‘The fifth article is the remains of a metallic magnetic
ring that could not be identified as any part of any device used at this
commands

4. This information and attached photograph may be transmitted to
the FBI to inform various agencies throughout the United States as to what
action to take in the event other similar specimens are found,

FOR THE COMMANDING GENERALs

H, Mi. MeGCY
2 Incl: Colonel, Air Corps

1 Photo S-1/2x12 Deputy Commanding General
“Flying Saucer" Intelligence (T-2)

ENCLOSURE

74 VIL G SAVCER

“

, ALLEGED SPRECIYEVS,

233138

A

\

I

Office Nala eealem :

Director, FBI

FROM SAC, Salt Lake City

G DISCS.
eS ee

SUBJECT:

Remytel tenth instant.

On September 10, 1947 an item r

he Salt ke Tribune indicating, tha
Es ELL and Mr. andMrs; RICHARDZSHOE

bridge, reported that they sav € ree
10:40 p.m more before 11:10
This news ar contained
Mr. and Mrs. . of Logan
having

the namesof

when interviewed by
th Mr.

epubosinately a aoten ob, jects flying in
thousand t They state
on September 8, 1947 at 10:30 p.m.
went out on the porch. The
size to pigeons and stated
They informed that the objects
to be moving faster than bi
two minutes, then disappeared

group

could

have

and

ANDERSON clai

to make up

i and Mrs.
the flight, and are unable
Mr. ANDERSON informed that
unknown city in Nebraska.

Mr. a

KEITH HUGHES and JOAN

heir names appeared in the
nuch as neither had ever had the
the newspaper report

Mir.
how
ina

to state
saucer
objects, and WAS
advised that,,she,
between 10
ted that
objects,
the city at a high rate
several thousand fe in
ine the dze due to the distance

RECORDED

the’

were
these objec
them to

Mrs.

lik

and
Forma

been bi

observed no win

CROOKSTON t

erroneous.

were rather yellowish

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

DATE: Septéembar 15, 1947

STON, and
of

of this
observed

an Agent
GAYLON CA
about
t observed these
game broke up and

Mrs.
ion at

both couples
simi

llun
y appeared

imately one

during
iy Sawe
route to an

to exactly
are presently en

unable

to view

her husba

O pe
groups, containing

white

each
color

of speed.

spe

INDEXED

TH 2 ange tirs #y)}
Mrs. ¥ y: yA t 4

howe ve

x ‘i a squeals)
as ‘
ano
i aa yA

3938

Igy
LHungag TNS Ly)

ee} yak!
«Hid 6T ¢ fd ¢ ‘\ Sow

yan

UIA 9 ay

Lg ] F

and Mrs
ing clockwi
1947 qT

was determined that

ere not available for

seeing

at, (ke

fares

q Post-OrFice DEPARTMENT ¢

BUREAU OF THE CHIEF INSPECTO!
“s OFFICE OF INSPECTOR
He Barkow . A
INSPECTOR Chicago 7, Illinois Case No. 56114-P
rof September 19, 1947.

LAM OresT, ILLINOIS: A

Federal Bureau of Investigation,
Washington, D. Ce.

Gentlemen:
he subject involved in case of above description is
C. WAHStevens, formerly of Lake Forest, Illinois, who may

also have given a Chicago address at various times.

Can you advise whether you have a record of this man
and if so, will you please forward a copy of same to me.

Sincerely yours,

GN. Bahr

Post Office Inspector.
Val

oe

randum * UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

>

TO + ‘DIRECTOR, FBI DATE: Septeriber\13, 1947

FROM =: SAC, SEATTLE

7
SUBJECT: “FYING DISC SIGHTED

July 29, 1947, neay/CANYON FERRY,

(TANA, BY KA RAMAN EVE
fERRMANN and R. J. (B DDEN;
SECURITY MATTER - X

Enclosed herewith for information of Bureau and Butte Division are
copies of the following received September 2, 1947, from H. R. PETERSON, Ath /Ao€
Air Force, S-2, McChord Field, Washington: REL ees

letter to Military Intelligence Division, USA, McChord Field, Wash.

from Re Je MADDEN, 427 W 3rd Ave. Spokane, Wash. dated 8/8/41,

with enclosure of Madden's "Report on a'Flying Saucer'."

No action being taken by Seattle.
REOGORDED

EEBshg
100-18945
Enclosures - 2
ce: Butte

ae

WYNITS TWaygiN

O3A1393y

September 24, 1947

Mr. T. H. Barkow
Inspector

Post Office Department
Chicago 7, Illinois

RHOORDED

3 Alleged violation of Section 2350, P. L. &
R-8 R., by des Arc Foundation; sale of information
on flying disos.

Reference is made to your letter dated September 19, 1947,
requesting information regarding one C, W. Stevens, your case #56114-F,

You are edvised that an effective search cannot be conducted
through the files of the Identification Division of the Federal Bureau
of Investigation on the basis of the name only, If you are able to fur-
nish the physical description of Stevens or other means of identification
Such a8 a registry number, a searoh will be éonducted in an effort to
furnish you with the information desired.

?
<
?
to

MATLED <Q
1947. P.M

|
VESTIGATION |
2

+ Tolson

one potent
| Ponntnton
Quinn Tama)

ia @
“a

Office Memorandum «+ onrrep

TO

* DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, SEATTLE

oe 2)
FLYING DISKS Reported by excog AusaHoK
and Wf. A-7MICHOLS, Seattle, Washington,
August 12, 1947

SECURITY MATTER X

SUBJECT:

The newspaper, Seattle Pos
morning issue of August 13 reporting the sig)

t+ Intelligencer,
hting of

appeared on the fifth page and was headed "Blue Triangle Late

Disks". Under caption there was a short wri
that one BRUCE
gineers at the

pm. on August

Ue

Boein

12 newspaper report further st

ARMSTRONG, an electronics technician, a
Aircraft head sighted a mysterion

é

Sua... GOVERNMENT

Sept. 12,1947

carried article in the
flying disks. The article
tThing Seen In
steted, in substance,
number of other en—
flying object about
that the ob ject seemed

10

to be fluttering
substance. [In th
sighted by one M. A.
cribed it as a

leaf, and appeared to be a black or dark blue triangular
rticle also ap red another report of a disk supposedly
NICHOLS, 1125 s. 102nd Street, Seattle, and NICHOLS des~
big ball reflecting light, giving it a purplish tinge.

Interview with BRUCE ARMSTRONG
was standing in front of Section D of the Boeing Aire:
other research engineers and had noticed a small bla
feet high, going south over Boeing Field runway. ARMSTRONG further ted, upon
interview, that the object appeared triangular in shape and floated in the air
like a leaf, and he estimated the speed to be about fifteen miles per hour.
ARMSTRONG could not accuretely determine the distance between } and the object

but it is noted that Section D is ebout half a mile from the opposite side of J ug

Boeing Field where he supposedly had sighted it.
ng other research enginéers were also interviewed regarding

We
NC

a op
een CS

The consensus of opinion of these men was that the object resembled 2 Back

in flight and looked more like a piece of tar paper than anyth ingiCTwHeliicttie object
reached the end of the runway in, Boeing Field it climbed into the sky in a south-—
westerly direction and disappeared,

on August 13 revealed that ARMSTRONG
ft Plant with about ten
object flyin out 200

Oxy

The follow
this object;

Mr. JOH
Mr. H.
Mr. BEN HAGER
Mr. LEROY PERKINS
Mr. 1AG

H. STONER

STONER RECORDED

INDEXED

4t

lhg

Mr. KEN .
was then contacted. Mr. GR

oper bbor of the control tower for the Northwest Airlines
WENT stated that he revi all reports of objects seen
in the vicinity of the, field me. a log of such. Mr. GRANT reviewed his

log but could not opyiiey record such an item, but upon contact with Mr. VAUGHN
LOCKWOOD, who ‘gr duty at the time the object was supposedly sighted, the
followi ing satappetips we ® obtained; LOCKWOOD stated that about 2 o'clock in the

MOH popres DESTROYED

a. 270 Nov 18 1964

DIRECTOR, FBI NG DISKS, Report of 8/26/1,7

afternoon there were several pieces of burnt paper which flew over the field,
and he did recall a large ¢ of burnt paper which the wind had blown across
the runway and down the south end of the field. LOCKWOOD estimated that the
paper was approximately three feet in length. GRANT stated that undoubtedly
this was the object in question, and inasmuch st wer has a complete
view of the area in which the engineers had sighted t object if anything fur-
ther was noted it would have appeared in the log.

Mr. M. A. NICHOLS, 1119 S. W. 102nd Street, was then interviewed regard-
ing his report o flying object. NICHOLS stated that about 4 p.m. on August 12
he had sighted an object which he estimated to be about 35,000 feet in the air,
which was flying over home in a southwest direction. A neighbor, RAY STANLEY,
also saw the object and STANLEY examined th ith a pair of binoculars.
According to STANLEY the object looked like a ock moving, cylindrical in
shape, reflected the light of the sun with a sort wplish ti Other
witnesses who the object at this time y M GEORGE KROGSTADT,
of 1113 s. 102nd Street, Seattle, and their version of the object corresponded
with that of NICHOLS and STANLEY.

Contact with ¥ { SERMAIN, h Weather Bureau Office
at Boeing Field, reveal I every six hours
from his field commencing at 1:30 a. The ball Ones according to Mr. GERMAIN,
are of a white gum color cat te zertect ne light of the sun at a high altitude.
Although Mr. s m2 ve been sighted
at 4 p.m., he less ¥ z i t, era the description of the object
seen by these people, it must ha een either one of his balloons or one released
from some other area in the vicinity.

No further invest is being conducted i
office.

Federal Bureau ot Investigation ]

United States Department of Justice :
422 = Federal Office Building, Civic Center VJ

San Francisco 2, California

eusetce September 19, 1947

FILE No. eu

h
Jdirector, FBI

Attention: Assistant Director D. M. LADD
Ce
RE: -REPORTS OF FLYING

Dear Sire

I am transmitting herewith copies of a "restricted" letter aw NG
September 3, 1947, which was furnished to me by Lieutenant Colonel DONALD
L. SPRINGER, A-2, Army Air Forces, Hamilton Field, California, which letter
is designated to certain Commanding Generals in the Army Air Forces from
Colonel R. H. SMITH, Assistant Chief of Staff - Intelligence, Headquarters
Air Defense Command, Mitchel Field, New York, concerning "Cooperation of FBI
with AAF on Investigations of ‘Flying Disc Incidents",

It is my understanding from recent Bureau instructions that we are
to assist the Air Force Intelligence personnel] in the investigation of flying
disc incidents. However, it will be noted from the attached letter that it
is Army interpretation that it was their intent that the Bureau would investi-
gate those incidents of the so-called "discs" being found on the ground and f
apparently not those which are observed only in flight. Further, the atten-
tion of the Bureau is respectfully called to paragraph two of this letter
and to the last sentence therein which states, "The services of the FBI were
enlisted in order to relisve the numbered Air Forces of the task of tracking
down all the many instarices which turned out to_be ash can covers, toilet
seats and whatnot."

In the first place, the instructions issued by the Army Air Forces
in this letter appear to limit the type of investigations which the Bureau
will be asked to handle and secondly it appears to me the wording of the last
sentence in the second paragraph mentioned above is cloaked in entirely
uncalled for language tending to indicate the Bureau will be asked to ase PALL,
investigations only in those cases which are not important and which are /VU
almost, in fact, ridiculous.

The thought has occurred to me the Bureau might desire to discuss
this matter further with the Army Air Forces both as to the types of investi-
gations which we will conduct and also to object to the scurrilous wordage
which, to say the least, is insulting to!thé Bureau in the last sentence of
paragraph twoe

AJUNIAS WNYZLNI

aid 2 ph Ao

OSA 038

Director, FBI 9/19/47
RE: REPORTS OF FLYING DISCS

In the event the Bureau decides to discuss the matter further with
the Army Air Forces, it is recommended that no indication whatsoever be
given indicating this letter was referred to me by Lieutenant Colonel
SPRINGER inasmuch as it would undoubtedly cause him serious embarrassment
and would certainly cause the excellent personal relationship which exists
between Lieutenant Colonel SPRINGER and this office to be endangerede

Very truly yours,

Hot Hates

gent in Charge

HMK smhr
62-2938

Be eRe

HEADQUARTERS
AIR DEFENSE COMMAND
Mitchel “ield, New York

In reply
refer to:

D333 .5EX 3 September 1947

SUBJECT: Cooperation of FBI with AAF on Investigations of "Flying
Disc" Incidents.

Commanding Genrals, First, Second, Fourth, Tenth, Eleventh
and Fourteenth Air Forces

ATTENTION: Assistant Chief of Staff, A-2

1. The Federal Bureau of Investigation has agreed to assist Air
Force Intelligence personnel in the investi gation of "flying disc”
incidents in order to quickly and effectively rule out what are pranks
and to concentrate on what appears to be a genuine incident.

26 It was the original intent of the AC/AS=2, Headquarters,
Army Air Forces that whereas the ADC Air Forces would interview respon-
sible observers whose names would be furnished by AAF, the FBI would
investigate incidents of so called "discs" being found on the groumnd.
The services of the FBI were enlisted in order to relieve the numbered
Air Forces of the task of tracking down all the many instances which
turned out to be ash can covers, toilet seats and whatnote

3. It is requested that each A-2 informally coordinate and
cooperate with the FBI, generally keeping the FBI informed of any
proposed calls that intelligence personnel] will make on this subject.
Very shortly, with the separation of the AAF from the War Department,
a firm policy will be established to clarify the liaison arrangements
between A-2's and FBI “peciel Agents. Presently, it is considered
inadvisable to promulgate a formal interim policy <= only to have it
replaced in a month or so by anothere

BY COMMAND OF LIEUTENANT GSNERAL STRATEMEYERs

/s/ Re He SMITH
R. He SMITH
Colonel, GSC
Asst Chief of Staff-Intell.

Be 1 BUR

(oY ferrrag

ative activiti

dated

the Air To

July 30 y

DIScs --Effective inmedia

All future re:
TCeS and no

es ag outlined in See
1947,

investigative

tely, the Bureay has @iscontinueg
tion B oF Bureay Bull,

its investi-
etin No, he,

Serieg 197 ,

Ports, connesied with flying dises Should be veferreq to
action shoula de take

m by Bureay Agents,

Ser Ny

ORIGINAL CO~’
é é

STANOARD Fy

Office lVLemovanauy2 + UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Director, FBI DATE: September 27, 1947

TO H
t Fa
ve Pr sia Butte

SUBJECT: FLYING DISCS SIGHTED MAY 5, 1947,
BETWEEN BLIENSBURG AND SEATTLE, WASH)

Warden JOM HENRY, Montana State Prison, Deer Lodge, Montana, has
advised the writer that while driving betwoen Ellensburg and Seattle, Washing~
ton, about 3:30 PeMe, on May 5, 1947, he sighted a silver object streaking
across the sky. This was also seen by MELBOURNE MeHILL, convict chauffeur,
and Mrs, HENRY, This object went into a nose dive and they thought it would
crash, However, before reaching the earth it disintegrated, leaving a long
pillar of “gas” hanging in the sky. It was partioularly odd because this re-
mained in form and did not blow away. It was observed by these three people
while they drove from twenty to thirty miles. \

This smoky, gaseous pillar was a long ways off ant Yomained high Y
in the air, Werden HEWRY said that this silver object was traveling at an //’
excessively high rate of speed and when it disintegrated it was still a long
wey from the earth, Warden HENRY said when he first saw it he thought it was
probably a jet propelled plene but that he ‘couldn't tell except that its mo-
tions were erratic. He said he had not reported it util he had noticed so
much in the papers about these disos. Although three people saw it, they de~
cided that they mst be "seoing things".

The Seattle Office is requested to advise Mr. H. R. PETERSON, 4th
Air Force, Se2, McChord Field, Washington.

No further action is being taken by the Butte Office due to the
time elapsing between the sighting of this object and the report.

4 Fo
ee
[ pvp 7
we * f ¥Q} |

NDEXED

ee

{GARD FORM NO. 64

Office, Mem

SUBJECT FLYING DISCS

fhere are attached hereto, photographs of various reports
receiyed by the Air Corps in connection With the above-captioned matters
Ives phot] ges che wan— + ewciiohla $5 Spee o) Acant S W Rayna of

the Tieison Section by Lieutenant ColomedRe lL. Garrett of the Intel
Divigien of the Air Force for completion of Bureau files.

RECOMMENDATION: It is recommended that this memorandum be made

available to Supervisor R. G. Fletcher of the Internal Security Section for

his information.

