                                                                                            ----~.~ ..:_:._~,. /

          Approved fo..r: Release 2026 Under Section 1842 of the National Defen~5.e ,..,_      _ .,-<,y-; ~ -- --<-4H~
6 64 2250
FORM
                             1
 •        Authorizati6n Ac -e' for Fiscal Year 2024                       ~    5'f.J _:     ~- _,.,/
                                                                                1




                                          (PLACE FORM qgo HERE)




                           0 FFI C/IAL                             J




                           RECORD

                          The,
                          Agenc.
                          in accc.
                          additior,
                          Records

                                                   .,.----------


                       RETURN IMMEDIATELY AFTER USE TO THE
                        CIA ARCHIVES AND RECORDS CENTER
FORM
6-64
       2250




                               (PLACE FORM ~90 HERE}




                OFFICIAL                          J




                RECORD
                 COPY
                                     WARNING

               The attached document (s) must be safeguarded.   It is the
               Agency's Official Historical Record and must be preserved
               in accordance with the Federal Records Act of 1950.   For
               additional information, call the Chief, CIA Archives and
               Records Center, extension 2468.




              RETURN IMMEDIATELY AFTER USE TO THE
               CIA ARCHIVES AND RECORDS CENTER
         -:/).
I,._;· -C'.'.:'.:
       ,   '
                    ,1/i
                       \
                               .. .        r   ..~..           ,=,. _._,_-
                                                               .-    _.," _ : . - - -   _J:
                                                                                              .
                                                                                              -~,,,,
                                                                                                             : ~ ~ ·,
                                                                                                        , -,_1: ...   -   ~-
                                                                                                                               ••,;-.,-·, C                                                                            /
                                                                                                                               ·~f·;•";,_,, ;: ~;..::;s.-..:.--:;_1-:,:,,•-'l(<..., - -... ~ · -....... --..._,,,!,.,,,,.,._
     ~              ~-                                                             I
                                                                                                       j/ )
                           'PROJECT BLLI ' B •
                  ?'e·--·('· ·~,--                                  ~~lt!L                                  ·•21u,c< ,.,.. #                                                   ·,               •                    .."""-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                1
 I                                                                                                                                                      d'"                    ;      ti?0
1---7                                                                               SJ
I '/~
I                                     SPECIAL REPORT N0.14
II




I                     (ANALYSIS OF REPORTS OF UNIDENTIFIED AERIAL OB1ECTS)

I
I                                               PROJECT NO. 10073

I
I                                                      5 MAY 1955

                                       \
I
I
I
I
.I
I              AIR TECHNICAL INTELLIGENCE CENTER
                                      WRIGHT-PATTERSON AIR FORCE BASE
I                                                  OHIO


I
                                                                                                                                                                                             35
I                                                                                                                              Copy No.
                                                                                                                                                                       --=----


,,




l
                                      PROJECT BLUE BOOK


\I
'
                                    SPECIAL REPORT NO. 14


ii               (ANALYSIS OF REPORTS OF UNIDENTIFIED AERIAL OBJECTS)
1


il
            I
            I
            I                           PROJECT NO. 10073

            I
    :1                                        5 MAY 1955

    I
    1




    11
    !

    ii                               FOR OffIC!Al USt ONlY
                                               (AFR 190-16)
     I
    :I
    !1  I
        I

                         AIR TECHNICAL INTELLIGENCE GENTER
            I             WRIGHT-PATTERSON AIR FORCE BASE
                                                  o:mo

            I
            I               No copyright materiel ls contained In this publication,


            _I
I
I                                                    TABLE OF CONTENTS


I   SUMMARY.                                                                                   vii


I   INTRODUCTION

    ORIGIN AND NATURE OF DATA                                                                    3


I   REDUCTION OF DATA TO MECHANIZED COMPUTATION FORM

         Questionnaire .
                                                                                                 4

                                                                                                 4
         Coding System and Work Sheet                                                            6

I        Identification of Working Papers.
         Evaluation of Individual Reports
                                                                                                7
                                                                                               10

    ANALYSIS OF THE DATA.                                                                      14

I        Frequency and Percentage Distributions by Characteristics
              Graphical Presentation .
                                                                                               14
                                                                                               16
         Advanced Study of the Data                                                            16

I             Position of the Sun Relative to the Observer
              Statistical Chi Square Test
         The "Flying Saucer" Model
                                                                                               16
                                                                                               60
                                                                                               76


I   CONCLUSIONS

    APPENDIX A. TABULATION OF FREQUENCY AND PERCENTAGE
     DISTRIBUTIONS BY CHARACTERISTICS
                                                                                               94


                                                                                                95


I   APPENDIX B.     WORKING PAPER FORMS

                                                   LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS
                                                                                               255




I   Figure l

    Figure 2
               Frequency of Sightings by Year for Object, Unit, and All Sightings

               Distribution of Evaluations of Object, Unit, and All Sightings for All Years
                                                                                                17

                                                                                                18


I   Figure 3   Distribution of Object Sightings by Evaluation for All Years With Comparisons
                of Each Year for Each Evaluation Group •                                        19



I   Figure 4

    Figure 5
               Distribution of Object Sightings by Evaluation for All Years and Each Year

               Distribution of Object Sightings by Evaluation Within Months for All Years
                                                                                                20

                                                                                                21



I
    Figure 6   Distribution of Object Sightings by Certain and Doubtful Evaluations for
                All Years and Each Year •                                                       22

    Figure 7   Frequency of Object Sightings and Unknown Object Evaluations by
                Months, 1947-1952.                                                              23

I   Figure 8   Distribution of Object Sightings by Sighting Reliability Groups With
                Evaluation Distributions for Each Group .                                       24



I   Figure 9   Distribution of Object Sightings Among the Four Sighting Reliability
                Groups for All Years and Each Year .

    Figure 10 Distribution of All Sightings by Sighting Reliability Groups, Segregated
                                                                                                25




I              by Military and Civilian Observers, With Evaluation Distribution
               for Each Segregation

    Figure 11 Distribution of Object Sightings by Reported Colors of Object(s) With
                                                                                                26




I              Evaluation Distribution for Each Color Group •

    Figure 12 Distribution of Object Sightings by Number of Objects Seen per Sighting
               With Evaluation Distribution for Each Group
                                                                                                27


                                                                                                28


I   Figure 13 Distribution of Object Sightings by Duration of Sighting With Evaluation
               Distribution for Each Duration Group .                                           29



I
I                                                             iii


I
                                                                                                    I
                                               LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS
                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                    I
                                                     (Continued)

                                                                                             Page



                                                                                                    I
Figure 14 Distribution of Object Sightings by Months Among the Eight Duration
           Groups for All Years                                                               30

Figure 15 Distribution of Object Sightings by Shape of Object(s) Reported With
           Evaluation Distribution for Each Shape Group ,                                     31

Figure 16 Distribution of Object Sightings by Reported Speed of Object(s) With
           Evaluation Distribution for Each Speed Group .                                     32
                                                                                                    I
Figure 17 Distribution of All Sightings by Observer Location for All Years and Each Year

Figure 18 Comparison of Known and Unknown Object Sightings by Color, 1947-1952
                                                                                              33

                                                                                              34
                                                                                                    I
Figure 19 Comparison of Known and Unknown Object Sightings by Number of Objects
           per Sighting, 1947-1952                                                            35    I
Figure 20 Comparison of Known and Unknown Object Sightings by Speed, 1947-1952                36

Figure 21 Comparison of Known and Unknown Object Sightings by Duration, 1947-1952

Figure 22 Comparison of Known and Unknown Object Sightings by Shape, 1947-1952
                                                                                              37

                                                                                              38
                                                                                                    I
Figure 23 Comparison of Known and Unknown Object Sightings by Light Brightness, 1947-1952

Figure 24 Comparison of Monthly Distribution of Object Sightings Evaluated as Astronomical
                                                                                              39
                                                                                                    I
           Versus Total Object Sightings Less Astronomical.

Figure 25 Comparison of Monthly Distribution of Object Sightings Evaluated as Aircraft
           Versus Total Object Sightings Less Aircraft
                                                                                              40


                                                                                              41
                                                                                                    I
Figure 26 Comparison of Monthly Distribution of Object Sightings Evaluated as Balloon
           Versus Total Object Sightings Less Balloon,                                        42    I
                                                                                                    I
Figure 27 Comparison of Monthly Distribution of Object Sightings Evaluated as Insufficient
           Information Versus Total Object Sightings Less Insufficient Information            43

Figure 28 Comparison of Monthly Distribution of Object Sightings Evaluated as Other
           Versus Total Object Sightings Less Other                                           44

Figure 29 Comparison of Monthly Distribution of Object Sightings Evaluated as Unknown
           Versus Total Object Sightings Less Unknown                                         45
                                                                                                    I
Figure 30 Characteristics Profiles of Object Sightings by Total Sample, Known Evaluations,          ,-
           and Individual Known Evaluations, With Unknown Evaluations Superimposed ,          46

Figure 31   Frequency of Object, Unit, and All Sightings Within the U. S., 1947-1952, by
             Subdivisions of One Degree of Latitude and Longitude

Figure 32 Distribution of Object Sightings by Evaluation for the Twelve Regional Areas of
           the U. S., With the Strategic Areas Located
                                                                                              47
                                                                                                    I
                                                                                              48

Figure 33 Comparison of Evaluation of Object Sightings in the Strategic Areas of the
           Central East Region                                                                49
                                                                                                    I
Figure 34 Comparison of Evaluation of Object Sightings in the Strategic Areas of the
           Central Midwest Region

Figure 35 Comparison of Evaluation of Object Sightings in the Strategic Areas of the
                                                                                              50
                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                    I
           Central Farwest Region                                                             51

Figure 36 Comparison of Evaluation of Object Sightings in the Strategic Areas of the
           South Midwest Region .                                                             52

Figure 37 Comparison of Evaluation of Object Sightings in the Strategic Areas of the
           South West Region                                                                  53
                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                    I
                                                          iv
                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                    I
I
I
I                                                 LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS
                                                        (Continued)




I   Figure 38 Comparison of Evaluation of Object Sightings in the Strategic Areas of the
               South Farwest Region .                                                                54



I   Figure 39 Diagram of a Celestial Sphere.

    Figure 40 Frequency of Object Sightings by Angle of Elevation of the Sun, Intervals
               of 10 Degrees of Angle.
                                                                                                     56


                                                                                                     57


I   Figure 41 Frequency of Object Sightings by Local Sun Time, Intervals of One Hour

    Table      Object Sightings
                                                                                                     59

                                                                                                     60


I   Table

    Table
            II Chi Square Test of Knowns Versus Unknowns on the Basis of Color

            III Chi Square Test of Knowns Versus Unknowns on the Basis of Number
                                                                                                     62

                                                                                                     63


I   Table

    Table
            IV Chi Square Test of Knowns Versus Unknowns on the Basis of Shape

            V Chi Square Test of Knowns Versus Unknowns on the Basis of Duration of Observation
                                                                                                     64

                                                                                                     65


I   Table   VI Chi Square Test of Knowns Versus Unknowns on the Basis of Speed

    Table VII Chi Square Test of Knowns Versus Unknowns on the Basis of Light Brightness
                                                                                                     ti6

                                                                                                     67


I   Table VIII Chi Square Test of Revised Knowns Versus Unknowns on the Basis of Color

    Table   IX Chi Square Test of Revised Knowns Versus Unknowns on the Basis of Number.
                                                                                                     70

                                                                                                     71



I   Table

    Table
            X Chi Square Test of Revised Knowns Versus Unknowns on the Basis of Shape

            XI Chi Square Test of Revised Knowns Versus Unknowns on the Basis of
                Duration of Ob~ervation
                                                                                                     72


                                                                                                     73


I   Table XII Chi Square Test of Revised Knowns Versus Unknowns on the Basis of Speed

    Table XIII Chi Square Test of Revised Knowns Versus Unknowns on the Basis of Light Brightness.
                                                                                                     74

                                                                                                     75


I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I                                                        v and vi

I
 I
 I                                     SUMMARY


 I           Reports of unidentified aerial objects (popularly termed "flying
     saucers" or "flying discs") have been received by the U.S. Air Force

 I   since mid-1947 from' many and diverse sources. Although there was no
     evidence that the ·unexplained reports of unidentified objects constituted
     a threat to the security of the U.S., the Air Force determined that all

 I   rep,orts of unidentified aerial objects should be fovestigated and evaluated
     to d,etermine if "flying saucers". represented technological developments
     not known to this country.

 I           In order to discover any pertinent trend or pattern inherent in the
     data, and to evaluate or explain any trend or pattern found, appropriate

 I   methods of reducing these data from reports of unidentified aerial objects
     to a form amenable to scientific' appraisal were employed. In general, the
     original data upon which this study was based consisted of impressions and

 I   interpretations of apparently unexplainable events, and seldom contained
     reliable measurements of physical attributes. This subjectivity of the data
     presented a 'major limitation to the drawing of significant conclusions, but

 I   did not invalidate the application of scientific methods bf study.

             The reports received by the U.S. Air Force on unidentified aerial

 I   objects were reduced to IBM punched-card abstracts of the data by means
     of logically developed forms and standardized evaluation procedures.
     Evaluation of sighting reports, a crucial step in the preparation of the data

 I   for statistical treatment, consisted of an appraisal of the reports and· the
     subsequent categorization of the object or objects described in each report.
     A detailed description of this phase of the study stresses the careful

I    attempt to maintain complete objectivity and consistency.

             Analysis of the refined and evaluated data derived from the original

I    reports of sightings consisted of (I) a systematic attempt to ferret out any
     distinguishing characteristics _inherent in the data of any of their segments,
     (2) a concentrated study of any trend or pattern found, and (3) an attempt

I    to determine the probability that any of the UNKNOWNS represent observa.:.
     tions of technological' developments not known to this country.


I             The first step in the 'analysis of the data revealed the existence of
     certain apparent similarities between cases of objects definitely identified
     .i.nd those not identified. Statistical methods of testing when applied indicated

I    a low probability that these apparent similarities were significant. An
     attempt to determine the probability that any of the UNKNOWNS represeri'ted
     observations of technological developments not known to this country necessi­

I    tated a thorough re-examination and re-evaluation of the cases of objects not
     originally identified; this led to the conclusion that this probability was very
     small.

I            The special study which resulted in this report (Analysis of Reports
     of Unidentified Aerial Objects, 5 May 1955) started in 1953. To provide the

I    study group with a complete set of files, the informatio~ cut-off date was
     established as of the end of 1952. It will accordingly be noted that the
     statistics contained in all charts and tables in this report are terminated

I
                                           vii
!I




I
                                                                                    I
with the year 1952.   In these charts, 3201 cases have been used.
                                                                                    I
        As the study progressed, a constant program was maintained for              I
the purpose of making comparisons between the current cases received
after I January 1953, and those being used for the report. This was done
in order that any change or significant trend which might arise from                I
current developments could be incorporated in the summary of this report.

         The 1953 and 1954 cases show a general and expected trend of               I
increasing percentages in the finally identified categories. They also.show
decreasing percentages in categories where there was insufficient informa­
tion and those where the phenomena could not be explained. This trend had           I
been:. anticipated in the light of improved reporting and investigating pro­
ceduJ;"es.
                                                                                    I
        Official reports on hand at the end of 1954 totaled 4834. Of these,
425 were produced in 1953 and 429 in 195'!. These 1953 and 1954 indi­
vidual reports (a total of 854), were evaluated on the same basis as were           I
those received before the end of 1952. The results are as follows:

                       Balloons            - 16%                                    I
                       Aircraft            - 20%
                                                                                    I
                       Astronomical        - 25%

                       Other               - 13%                                    I
                       Insufficient Info      1 7%
                                                                                    1.
                       Unknown             - 9%
        As the study of the current cases progressed, it became increasingly
obvious that if reporting and investigating procedures could be further improved,
                                                                                    I
the percentages of those cases which contained insufficient information and
those remaining unexplained would be greatly reduced. The key to a higher           I
percentage of solutions appeared to be in rapid "on the spot" investigations
by trained personnel. On the basis of this, a revised program was estab-
lished by AF Reg. 200-2 Subject: "Unidentified Flying Objects Reporting"
(Short Title: UFOB) dated 12 August 1954.
                                                                                    I
         This new program, which had begun to show marked results before
January 1955, provided primarily that the 4602d Air Intelligence Service'
                                                                                    I
Squadron (Air Defense Command) would carry out all field investigations.
This squadron has sufficient units and is so deployed as to be able to arrive
"on the spot" within a very short time after a report is received. After
                                                                                    I
treatment by the 4602d AISS, all information is supplied to the Air Technical
Intelligence Center for final evaluation. This cooperative program has re­
sulted, since 1 January 1955, in reducing the insufficient information cases
                                                                                    I
to 7o/o and the unknown cases to 3%, of the totals.

        The period l January 1955 to 5 May 1955 accounted for 131 unidentified
                                                                                    I
aerial object reports received. Evaluation percentages of these are as follows:
                                                                                    I
                                       viii
                                                                                    I
                                                                                    I
    I
-
    I        I                          Balloons            - 26%

    I
.....
                                       Aircraft

                                       Astronomical
                                                            - 21%

                                                            - 23%
    I                                   Other                   20%

I   ,,
                                        Insufficient Info -

                                       Unknown              -
                                                                7%

                                                                3%
    I                     All available data were included in this study which was prepared by
                  a panel of scientists both in and out of the Air Force. On the basis of this
I       fi
                  study it is believed that all the unidentified aerial objects could have been
                  explained if more complete observational data had been available. Insofar
                  as the reported aerial objects which still remain unexplained are concerned,
I                 there exists little information other than the impressions and interpretations
                  of their observers. As these impressions and interpretations have been

I                 replaced by the use of improved methods of investigation and reporting, and
                 ,by scientific analysis, the number of unexplained cases has decreased rapidly


I
                  towards the vanishing point.

                         Therefore, on the b_asis of this evaluation of the information, it is
    r·           considered to be highly improbable that reports of unidentified aerial objects
                 examined in this study represent observations of technological developments
I                outside of the range of present-day scientific knowledge. It is emphasized
                 that there has been a complete lack of any valid evidence of physical 'matter

I       [1
                 in any case of a reported unidentified aerial object.



I   '

I
I   '

I   f


I
I
I
I
I                                                      ix
I
I                                              INTRODUCTION

I          In June, 1947, Kenneth Arnold, a Boise, Idaho, businessman and

I    private pilot, publicly reported the now-famous sighting of a chainlike
     formation of disc-shaped objects near Mount Rainier, Washington. Result­
     ing newspaper publicity of this incident caught the public interest, and,
I    shortly thereafter, a rash of reports of unidentified aerial objects spawned
     the term "flying saucers". During the years since 1947, many reports of

I    unidentified aerial objects have been received by the Air Force from many
     and diverse sources.


I          The unfortunate term "flying saucer", or "flying disc", because of
     its widespread and indiscriminate use, requires definition. Many defini­

I    tions have been offered, one of the best being that originated by Dr. J.
     Allen Hynek, Director of the Emerson McMillin Observatory of The Ohio
     State University, who has taken a scientific interest in_the problem of

I    unidentified aerial objects since 1949. Dr. Hynek' s definition of the term
     is "any aerial phenomenon or sighting that remains unexplained to the
     viewer at least long enough for him to write a report about it 11 ( 1). Dr. Hynek,
·1   elaborating on his definition, says, "Each flying saucer, so defined, has
     associated with it a probable lifetime. It wanders in the field of public in­
     spection like an electron in a field of ions, until I captured' by an explana­
I    tion which puts an end to its existence as a I flying saucer' 11 ( 1).


I          This definition would be applicable to any and all of the sightings
     which remained unidentified throughout this study. However, the term
     "flying saucers" shall be used hereafter in this report to mean a novel,
I    airborne phenomenon, a manifestation that is not a part of or readily ex­
     plainable by the fund of scientific knowledge known to be possessed by the

I    Free World. This would include such items as natural phenomena that are
     not yet completely understood, psychological phenomena, or intruder air­
     craft of a type that may be possessed by some source in large enough

I    numbers so that more than one independent mission may have been flown
     and reported. Thus, these phenomena are of the type which should have
     been observed and reported more than once.
I          Since 1947, public interest in the subject of unidentified aerial objects

I    fluctuated more or less within reasonable limits until the summer of 1952,
     when the frequency of reports of sightings reached a peak, possibly stimu­
     lated by several articles on the subject in leading popular magazines.
I          Early in 1952, the Air Force's cumulative study and analysis of
     reported sightings indicated that the majority of reports could be accounted
I    for as misinterpretations of known objects ( such as meteors, balloons, or
     aircraft), a few as the result of mild hysteria, and a very few as the result

I    of unfamiliar meteorological phenomena and light aberrations. However,
     (1) Hynek, J. A.• "Unusual Aerial Phenomena"• Journal of the Optical Society of America. 43 (4).

I        pp 311-314, April, 1953.

                                                         1


J
                                                                                  I
a significant number of fairly complete reports by reliable observers re­        I
mained unexplained. Although no evidence existed that unexplained reports
of sightings constituted_ a 1>hysical threat to the security of the U. S., in
March, 1952, the Air Force decided that all reports of unidentified
                                                                                 I
aerial objects should be investigated and evaluated to determine if "flying
saucers" represented technological developments not known to this country.       I
      Originally, the problem involved the preparation and analysis of about
1,300 reports accumulated by the Air Force between 1947 and the end of
                                                                                 I
March, 1952. During the course of the work, the number of reports sub­
mitted for analysis and evaluation more than tripled, the result of the un­
precedented increase in observations during 1952. Accordingly, this study
                                                                                 I
is based on a number of reports considered to be large enough for a pre­
liminary statistical analysis, approximately 4, 000 reports.                     I
       This study was undertaken primarily to categorize the available
reports of sightings and to determine the probability that any of the reports
                                                                                 I
of unidentified aerial objects represented observations of "flying saucers".
With full cognizance of the quality of the data available for study, yet with
an awareness of the proportions this subject has assumed at times in the
                                                                                 I
public mind, this work was undertaken with all the seriousness accorded
to a straightforward scientific investigation. In order to establish the         I
probability that any of the reports of unidentified aerial objects represented
observations of "flying saucers", it was necessary to make an attempt to
answer the question "What is a 'flying saucer'?". However, it must be
                                                                                 I
emphasized that this was only incidental to the primary purpose of the
study, the determination of the probability that any of the reports of un­
identified aerial objects represented observations of "flying saucers", as
                                                                                 I
defined on Page 1.
                                                                                 I
      The basic technique for this study consisted of reducing the available
data to a form suitable for mechanical manipulation, a prerequisite for the
application of preliminary statistical methods .. One of International
                                                                                 I
Business Machine Corporation's systems was chosen as the best available
mechanical equipment.                                                            I
      The reduction of data contained in sighting reports into a form suit­
able for transfer to IBM punched cards was extremely difficult and time
                                                                                 I
consuming.

      For this study a panel of consultants was formed, consisting of both
                                                                                 I
experts within and outside A TIC. During the course of the work, guidance
and advice were received from the panel. The professional experience             I
available from the panel covered major scientific fields and numerous
specialized fields.
                                                                                 I
     All records and working papers of this study have been carefully
preserved in an orderly fashion suitable for ready reference. These              I
                                      2                                          I
                                                                                 l
I
I   records include condensations of all individual sighting reports, and the
    IBM cards used in various phases of the study.
I
I                         ORIGIN AND NATURE OF DA TA


I         Reports of sightings were received by the U. S. Air Force from a
    representative cross section of the population of the U. S., and varied
I   widely in completeness and quality. Included were reports from reputable
    scientists, housewives, farmers, students, and technically trained mem­

I   bers of the Armed Forces. Reports varied in length from a few sentences
    stating that a "flying saucer" had been sighted, to those containing thou­
    sands of words, including description, speculation, and advice on how to

I   handle the "problem of the I flying saucers 1 " . Some reports were of high
    quality, conservative, and as complete as the observer could make them;
    a few originated from people confined to mental institutions. A critical
I   examination of the reports revealed, however, that a high percentage of
    them was submitted by serious people, mystified by what they had seen and

I   motivated by patriotic responsibility.

          Three principal sources of reports were noted in the preliminary
I   review of the data. The bulk of the data arrived at A TIC through regular
    military channels, from June, 1947, until the middle of 1952.

I          A second type of data consisted of letters reporting sightings sent by
    civilian observers directly to A TIC. Most of these direct communications

I   were dated subsequent to April 30, 1952, and are believed to be the result
    of a suggestion by a popular magazine that future reports be directed to the
    Air Technical Intelligence Center. As could be expected, a large number
I   of letters was received following this publicity.


I         A third type of data was that contained in questionnaire forms com­
    pleted by the observer himself. A questionnaire form, developed during
    the course of this study, was mailed by A TIC to a selected group of writers

I   of direct letters with the request that the form be completed and returned.
    Approximately 1,000 responses were received by ATIC.

I           In general, the data were subjective, consisting of qualified estimates
    of physical characteristics rather than of precise measurements. Further­

I   more, most of the reports were not reduced to written form immediately.
    The time between sighting and report varied from one day to several years.
    Both of these factors introduced an element of doubt concerning the validity
I   o,f the original data, and increased its subjectivity. This was intensified by
    the recognized inability of the average individual to estimate speeds, dis­
    tances, and sizes of objects in the air with any degree of accuracy. In
I   spite of these limitations, methods of statistical analysis of such reports m
    sufficiently large groups are valid. The danger lies in the possibility of

I                                         3


I
                                                                                                                 I
forgetting the subjectivity of the data at the time that conclusions are
drawn from the analysis. It must be emphasized, again and again, that any
                                                                                                                 I
conclusions contained in this report are based NOT on facts, but on what
many observers thought and estimated the true facts to be.
                                                                                                                 I
       Altogether, the data for this study consisted of approximately 4, 000
 reports of sightings of unidentified aerial objects. The majority were :re­
                                                                                                                 I
 ceived through military channels or in the form of observer-completed
 questionnaires; a few were accepted in the form of direct letters from un­                                      I
-questionably reliable sources. Sightings made between June, 1947, and
 December, 1952, were considered for this study. Sightings alleged to have
 occurred prior to 1947 were not considered, since they were not reported
                                                                                                                 I
 to official sources until after public interest in "flying saucers" had been
 stimulated by the popular press.                                                                                I
                                                                                                                 I
       REDUCTION OF DA TA TO MECHANIZED COMPUTATION FORM
                                                                                                                 I
      As received by the Air Technical Intelligence Center, the sighting
reports were not in a form suitable for even a quasi-scientific study. A
preliminary review of the data indicated the need for standardized interro­
                                                                                                                 I
gation procedures and supplemental forms for the reduction of currently
held and subsequently acquired data to a form amenable to scientific
                                                                                                                 I
appraisal.

       The plan for reduction of the data to usable form consisted of a pro­
                                                                                                                 I
gram of development comprising four major steps: ( 1) a systematic listing
of the factors necessary to evaluate the observer and his report, and to                                         I
identify the unknown object observed; (2) a standard scheme for the trans­
fer of data to a mechanized computation system; (3) an orderly means of
relating the original data to_ all subsequent forms; and ( 4} a consistent pro­
                                                                                                                 I
cedure for the identification of the phenomenon described by the original
data.                                                                                                            I
                                            Questionnaire                                                        I
      The first reports received by A TIC varied widely in completeness
                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                 I
and quality. Air Force Letter 200-5(2} and Air Force Form 112( 1) were
attempts to fix responsibility for and improve the quality of the reports of                                     I
sightings. To coordinate past efforts and to provide standardization for the

(1) A modified Air Force Form 112 lists pertinent questions to be answered in regard to an unidentified-object   I
    sighting.
(2) Air Force Letter 200-5 places responsibility with the Air Force for the investigation, reporting, and
    analysis of unidentified aerial objects. This letter is dated 29 April 1952.                                 I
                                                      4                                                          I
                                                                                                                 I
I
I   future, it was imperative to develop a questionnaire form listing the factors
    necessary for evaluation of the observer and his report, and identification
I   of the unknown objects. In addition, it was decided that such a questionnaire
    should be designed to serve as an interrogator's guide, and as a form for

I   the observer himself to complete when personal interrogation was not possi­
    ble or practicable.

I          Ideally, a questionnaire for the purposes required should contain
    questions pertaining to all technical details considered to be essential for

I   the statistical approach, and should serve to obtain a maximum of informa­
    tion from the average individual who had made a sighting in the past or
    would be likely to be reporting sightings in the future. Besides these ~is­

I   crete facts, an integrated written description of a sighting would be re­
    quired, thus enabling the reported facts of the sighting to be corroborated.
    Also, a narrative description might allow subtle questions to be answered
I   concerning the observer's ability, such as indirect questions that would
    reveal his reasoning ability, suggestibility, and general mental attitude.

I   As a whole, then, the information contained in a questionnaire should make
    possible the classification and evaluation of the sighting, the rating of the
    observer, the probability of accuracy of reported facts, and the identifica­
I   tion of what was reported by the observer as unidentified.

          During the course of this project, three questionnaire forms were
I   developed, each intended to be an improved revision of the one preceding.
    The improvements were suggested and confirmed by members of the panel

I   of consultants connected with this project.

           The original form was evolved by the panel of consultants as their
I   first work on this project. It was intended to allow the start of the reduc­
    tion of reports to discrete data, and was immediately subjected to exten­

I   sive review and revision by the panel. The revised ( second) form was
    subjected to a trial test before adoption. A TIC sent a copy to observers
    reporting sightings, with the request that the form be completed and re­

I   turned. Of the first 300 questionnaires returned during July and August,
    1952, 168 were analyzed by a consulting psychologist. On the basis of this
    analysis, plus the experience gained in working with past reports, the final
I   form of the questionnaire - the U. S. Air Force Technical Information
    Sheet - was evolved. Copies of the three forms of the questionnaire, in

I   the order of their development, are shown as Exhibits BI, B2, and B3 in
    Appendix B.


I         In order to implement the transcription of data from past sighting
    reports, each succeeding form was put to use as soon as it was developed
    and approved. Accordingly, experience was obtained with each form in
I   relation to past data, an important factor in the improvement of the quality
    and completeness of the later reports included in this study.

I
I                                        5

I
                                                                                I
                       Coding System and Work Sheet                            I
       The reduction of non-numerical data to numerical form is mandatory
                                                                               I
in the machine handling of data. Thus, the selection of the IBM punched­
card system for analysis of data forced the adoption of a master coding
plan. Since it was impracticable to transfer detailed data of a~ exact
                                                                               I
nature from the questionnaire to the IBM card, an intermediate transfer
form, coordinated with the master code, was necessary.                         I
       The master coding plan was evolved during the early stages of the
preli~inary analysis of data, and was reviewed by the panel of consultants
                                                                               I
before use. It was recognized that this system of coding would be the
heart of the analysis, that is, the completeness of the facility for trans­
lation of data could make or break the study. Accordingly, every conceiv­
                                                                               I
able factor that might influence the identification of unidentified aerial
objects was included, together with a wide range of variations within each
                                                                               I
factor. The original coding system (with minor corrections) was used
throughout the translation of the original data with marked success. A copy
of this system, called CODES, is enclosed as Exhibit IH, Appendix B.
                                                                               I
      To facilitate the preparation of the punched-card abstract, an inter­    I
mediate form called the WORK SHEET (later, the CARD BIBLE) was
developed. Referenced to both the data from the questionnaire and the sys­
tem of report identification, the WORK SHEET permitted an orderly
                                                                               I
transcription of data simultaneously by several people. In conjunction
with the CODES, the WORK SHEET was used during the reduction of the
original data to code form necessary for transfer to punched cards. A
                                                                               I
sample is included as Exhibit BS, Appendix B.
                                                                               I
      After the analysis was under way, it became apparent that the me­
chanics of machine processing could be improved by incorporating in the
IBM card system group classifications of certain factors requiring more
                                                                               I
than one column for discrete expression. In addition, the inclusion of
certain data relating to the evaluation and bearing of the sun with respect
to the observer was considered necessary. Finally, a critical examination
                                                                               I
of certain segments of the data indicated the need for the definition of a
new factor relating to the maneuvers of the object or objects sighted.
                                                                               I
Prior to the start of the analytical study, it had been assumed that a com­
bination of stated factors would, by inference, define the maneuver pattern.   I
      All these additions have been incorporated in a revised set of CODES
and CARD BIBLE that are illustrated as Exhibits B6 and B7, Appendix B.         I
However, at the time that the maneuver factor was determined to be criti­
cal, it was physically impracticable to make the required definitions and
re-evaluate the original data. Therefore, no code for maneuverability has
                                                                               I
been included in the CODES, CARD BIBLE, or IBM cards.
                                                                               I
                                     6                                         I
                                                                               I
I
I                         Identification of Working Papers


I         The actual reduction of data to IBM punched-card form presented a

I   problem of mass transfer of figures by several workers. Recognizing that
    an orderly system of relating the original data to the questionnaire, the
    WORK SHEET, and the IBM card was imperative, a scheme of SERIAL

I   NUMBERS was developed to answer this need.

           The first data consisted of a series of letter-file folders identified by
I   the year and location of the sighting or sightings they contained. The num­
    ber of reports of sightings in a single folder varied from 1 to over 20.

I   Under these conditions, there was a great possibility for incorrect tran­
    scription of data, duplication of transcription, or misplacement of inter­
    mediate forms. Further, it was considered desirable to relate all sightings

I   of the same object or objects to one another. The concept of a four-digit
    serial number (major), followed by a two-digit subserial number (minor),
    was adequate to fulfill these requirements.
I          To expedite handling of the data, temporary serial numbers were

I   assigned until each report had been evaluated and the phenomenon had been
    placed i11:, a category of identification. The use of temporary serial num­
    bers permitted the consolidation of duplicate reports from apparently
I   diverse sources, such as a teletype message and an Air Force Form 112.
    However, this consolidation was made ONLY when it could be proved con­

I   clusively that the sources of the two documents were one and the same.
    Factors of the observer's location, date and time of observation, descrip­
    tion of the phenomenon, and finally, the name of the observer were con­

I   sidered. In this manner, the assignment of major serial and minor sub­
    serial numbers in continuous series was made only to the reports accepted
    for the statistical study. It is believed that the reports accepted represent
I   unique and unduplicated instances of sightings.


I         In the establishment of the serial-number system, it was necessary
    to define certain terms,' so that a standard interpretation could be achieved.
    The terms and corresponding definitions were:
I         OBSERVER - Any witness reporting to a proper authority that
                     he had seen unidentified aerial objects.
I         SIGHTING       The report or group of reports of the same

I                        observed phenomenon that remained unidenti­
                         fied to the observer or observers, at least
                         until reported.
I
I
I                                          7


I
                                                                               I
      SINGLE OBSERVATION - A SIGHTING consisting of a single                   I
                 report from ( 1) one OBSERVER with no knowledge
                 of additional OBSERVERS of the same phenom­
                 enon, or (2) a group of witnesses of the same
                                                                               I
                 phenomenon, each cognizant of the others. The
                 witness who made the report is called a SINGLE
                 OBSERVER.
                                                                               I
      MULTIPLE OBSERVATION - A SIGHTING consisting of                          I
                 several reports from OBSERVERS of the same
                 phenomenon who were cognizant of each other.
                 The witnesses who made reports are called
                                                                               I
                MULTIPLE OBSERVERS.
                                                                               I
      ALL SIGHTINGS - ( 1) The group of reports consisting of one
                  report for each OBSERVER, including both
                  SINGLE and MULTIPLE OBSERVERS. (2) The
                                                                               I
                  questionnaire, work sheet, and IBM card
                  representing the report from each OBSERVER -
                  in other words, the representation of each report
                                                                               I
                  accepted for the statistical study.
                                                                               I
      UNIT SIGHTINGS - ( 1) The group of reports consisting of one
                  report for each SIGHTING, including all the
                  reports of SINGLE OBSERVATIONS and the one
                                                                               I
                  most representative report from each MULTIPLE
                  OBSERVATION. (2) The questionnaire, work
                  sheet, and IBM card representing the report for
                                                                               I
                  each SIGHTING accepted for the statistical study.
                                                                               I
      A major serial number (four digits) was assigned to each sighting,
segregating the year of occurrence by selection of limits for each year, as
follows:
                                                                               I
                      0001 to 0500 reserved for 1947
                      0501 to 1000 reserved for 1948
                                                                               I
                      1001 to 1500 reserved for 1949
                      150lto2000 reserved for 1950
                                                                               I
                      2001 to 2500 reserved for 1951
                      2501 to4900 reserved for 1952                            I
While this scheme would serve to identify any individual sighting, identifi­
cation of each report and its subsequent forms was necessary. The minor        I
subserial numbers ( two digits) fulfiiled this requirement. For all SINGLE
OBSERVATIONS, a major serial number followed by two (2) zeros, for
example, 2759. 00, was sufficient identification. For MULTIPLE OBSER­
                                                                               I
VATIONS, the major serial number followed by a series of two-digit num­
bers ranging from 00 to 99 was used to identify the individual reports. In
general, the most complete report from the most reliable observer of that
                                                                               I
                                      8                                        I
                                                                               I
I
I   MULTIPLE OBSERVATION was identified with the . 00 subserial number.
    As an example, a MULTIPLE OBSERVATION consisting of six sighting
I   reports would have the following serial numbers:



I                1132. 00 representing the best report and observer
                 1132.01 representing an additional observer
                 1132. 02 representing an additional observer

I                1132. 03 representing an additional observer
                 1132. 04 representing an additional observer
                 1132. 05 representing an additional observer
I         During the course of the transcription of the data to machine card

I   form, it became obvious that certain reports could have been independent
    observations of the same phenomenon. So, if the presentation of an
    analysis based on one report for each sighting was valid ( the concept of

I   UNIT SIGHTINGS}, a presentation of an analysis based on one report for
    each phenomenon should be valid also. Further, the examination of data
    relating to the actual number of phenomena was considered to be the proper
I   basis for assessing the probability of technological developments outside
    the range of present-day scientific knowledge. Therefore, a designation of

I   OBJECT SIGHTINGS was established, with the following definition:

          OBJECT SIGHTING - ( 1) The group of reports consisting of
I                    one report for each phenomenon. (2) The
                     questionnaire, work sheet, and IBM card

I                    representing a report for each phenomenon
                     accepted for the statistical study.


I   In brief review, ALL SIGHTINGS refer to all reports, UNIT SIGHTINGS
    refer to actual sightings, and OBJECT SIGHTINGS refer to the assumed
    number of phenomena.
I         It must be recognized that the process of identifying OBJECT

I   SIGHTINGS was deductive, while that for UNIT SIGHTINGS was definitive.
    A conservative approach was adopted in the determination of OBJECT
    SIGHTINGS, using the factors of date and time of observations, location
I   of observers, duration of observations, and range, bearing, track direc­
    tion, and identification of the phenomena. Any error of selection of OBJECT
    SIGHTINGS will tend to be in the direction of reducing the actual number of
I   phenomena observed ( several instances of UNIT SIGHTINGS that might be
    one OBJECT SIGHTING were noted, but the evidence was not conclusive

I   enough to justify consolidation of the reports).

          Following the determination of OBJECT SIGHTINGS, a series of
I   serial numbers, called the INCIDENT SERIAL NUMBERS, was established
    to facilitate any future study of a specific object sighting. Each reported

I   sighting that relates to an OBJECT SIGHTING received the same incident
    serial number, a four-digit code paralleling the major serial number
    series.

I                                        9

I
                                                                                  I
       For machine manipulation, it was desirable to be able to select the        I
sample of cards (all reports, all sightings, or all phenomena) to be in­
cluded in a particular study. The concept of a SIGHTING IDENTIFICATION
NUMBER was evolved to fill this desire. Using one column of the IBM
                                                                                  I
card, and the correlated working papers,· the code for this function was
developed. Multiple punching eliminated the need to use several columns
for discrete expression of the variations. Selection of the proper number
                                                                                  I
in this column thus permitted selection of the desired sample of cards.         ·1
                      Evaluation of Individual Reports                           I
      Evaluation of sighting reports was recognized as a crucial step in the
preparation of data for statistical treatment; inconsistent evaluations would
                                                                                 I
have invalidated any conclusions to be derived from this study. A method
of evaluation was, therefore, determined simultaneously with the develop­
                                                                                 I
ment of the questionnaire, the coding system, and the work sheet. It is
emphasized that all phases of evaluation, even including the tedious prep­
aration of the original data for statistical treatment, were entrusted only
                                                                                 I
to selected, specially qualified scientists and engineers.
                                                                                 I
        Evaluation consisted of a standardized procedure to be followed for:
( 1) the deduction of discrete facts from data which depended on human im­
pressions rather than scientific measurements, (2) the rating of the ob­
                                                                                 I
server and his report as determined from available information, and ( 3) the
determination of the probable identification of the phenomenon observed.
Categories of identification, established upon the basis of previous experi­
                                                                                 I
ence, were as follows:
                                                                                 I
                       Balloon
                       Astronomical
                       Aircraft
                                                                                 I
                       Light phenomenon
                       Birds
                       Clouds, dust, etc.
                                                                                 I
                       Insufficient information
                       Psychological manifestations
                                                                                 I
                       Unknown
                       Other                                                     I
       The first step in evaluation, the deduction of discrete facts from
subjective data, required certain calculations based on the information          I
available in the sighting report. An example was the finding of the approxi­
mate angular velocity and acceleration of the object or objects sighted.
Care was taken during this phase of the work to insure against the deduc­
                                                                                 I
tion of discrete facts not warranted by the original data. Thus, even
though there was a complete lack of any valid evidence consisting of            I
                                     10                                          I
                                                                                 I
I
I    physical matter in any case of a reported unidentified aerial object, this
     was not assumed to be prima facie evidence that "flying saucers" did not
I    exist.


I          In those cases in which an attempt to reduce the information to a
     factual level failed completely, the report was eliminated from further con­
     sideration, and thus not included in the statistical analysis. About 800
1·   reports of sightings were eliminated or rejected in this manner. Most of
     these reports were rejected because they were extremely nebulous; the

I    rest were rejected because they contained highly conflicting statements.

           The second step in evaluation, the rating of the observer and his

I    report, logically followed the first step, the reduction of the data to usable
     form. Ratings were assigned on the basis of the following factors of in­
     formation, considered in relation to one another:
I          ( 1)   The experience of the observer, deduced from his

I          ( 2)
                  occupation, age, and training;

                  The consistency among the separate portions of the

I                 description of the sighting;

           (3)    The general quality and completeness of the report;
I          (4)    Consideration of the observer's fact-reporting ability

I                 and attitude, as disclosed by his manner of describing
                  the sighting.


I    In cases in which insufficient information was available to make a judgment
     of the observer or report, none was made, but the report was accepted for

I    the statistical study.

            The third step in the process of evaluation, the attempted identifica­

I    tion of the object or objects sighted, was done twice, first by the individual
     who made the transcription of the data (the preliminary identification), and
     later (the final identification} by a conference of four persons, two repre­
I    sentatives from ATIC and two from the panel of consultants. Although
     representatives of A TIC participated in making the final identifications, it

I    must be emphasized that any previous identification of a sighting made by
     A TIC was not introduced or referred to in any way.


I          In the coding system, the choices provided for final identifications
     were based on A TIC' s previous experience in analysis of the data. They
     had found that the majority of sightings could be classified as misinterpre­
I    tations of common objects or natural phenomena. Accordingly, categories
     for objects most frequently present in the air were provided. Balloons,

I    aircraft, astronomical bodies ( such as meteors), birds, and clouds or dust
     were recognized as major categories. The less frequent, but common
     objects, such as kites, fireworks, flares, rockets, contrails, and
I                                           11

I
                                                                               I
meteorological phenomena like small tornadoes, were collected into a
category called OTHER. A separate category for the uncommon natural
                                                                                I
phenomena associated with light reflections or refractions, such as mirages,
sun dogs, inversion-layer images, and distortions caused by airborne ic.e,
                                                                                I
was established with the title of LIGHT PHENOMENON. Categories for
INSUFFICIENT INFORMATION, PSYCHOLOGICAL MANIFESTATIONS, and
UNKNOWN were provided for the sightings that could not be fitted into the
                                                                                I
preceding identifications. An explanation of their use follows:
                                                                                I
      INSUFFICIENT INFORMATION - This identification category
                   was assigned to a report when, upon final con­
                   sideration, there was some essential item of
                                                                                I
                   information missing, or there was enough
                   doubt abou._t what data were available to disallow
                 • identification as a common object or some
                                                                                I
                   natural phenomenon. It is emphasized that this
                   category of identification was not used as a
                                                                               I
                   convenient way to dispose of what might be
                   called "poor unknowns", but as a category for
                   reports that, perhaps, could have been one of
                                                                               I
                   several known objects or natural phenomena.
                  No reports identified as INSUFFICIENT INFORMA­
                   TION contain authenticated facts or impressions
                                                                               I
                   concerning the sighting that would prevent its
                   being identified as a known object or phenomenon;
                                                                               I
     PSYCHOLOGICAL MANIFESTATIONS - This identification
                category was assigned to a report when,
                                                                               I
                although it was well established that the ob­
                server had seen something, it was also                         I
                obvious that the description of the sighting
                had been overdrawn. Religious fanaticism, a
                desire for publicity, or an over-active imagi­
                                                                               I
                nation were the most common mental aber­
                rations causing this type of report;                           I
     UNKNOWN - This designation in the identification code was
                assigned to those reports of sightings wherein                 I
                the description of the object and its maneuvers
                could not be fitted to the pattern of any known
                object or phenomenon.
                                                                               I
     For the purposes of this study, two groups of identifications were
recognized, the KNOWNS (including all identification categories except the
                                                                               I
UNKNOWNS) and the UNKNOWNS.
                                                                               I
      All possible identifications provided in the code system, except
INSUFFICIENT INFORMATION and UNKNOWN, could be assigned accord­
ing to two degrees of certainty, designated "Certain" and "Doubtful".
                                                                               I
                                    12                                         I
                                                                               I
I
I   A "Certain" identification indicated a minimum amount of doubt regarding
    the validity of the evaluation. By "rule-of-thumb" reasoning, the proba­
I   bility of the identification being correct was better than 95 per cent. A
    "Doubtful'' identification indicated that the choice was less positive, but

I   that there was a better than even chance of being correct.

           It is emphasized again that, as was tr.ue for other phases of evalua­
I   tion, preliminary and final identification was entrusted only to scientists
    and engineers who, in addition to their broad scientific background, had

I   received instruction, where necessary, in specialized subjects. The panel
    of consultants provided background information for this instruction. Many
    of the cases representing unusual features or maneuvers were submitted to

I   and discussed with various members of the panel of consultants prior to the
    final identification.

I         Consistency in the application of the knowledge necessary for making
    identifications was maintained by frequent collaboration among the person­

I   nel involved, and systematic spot checks of the work. In addition to the
    general fund of knowledge required to identify satisfactorily a reported
    unidentified aerial object, an attempt was made to correlate specific data
I   such as flight plans of aircraft, records of balloon releases, weather con­
    ditions, and an astronomical almanac with the reported sighting.

I          The procedure followed in making final identifications deserves ex­
    planation because of the importance assumed by the identification as a basis

I   for statistical treatment. As was mentioned, a conference of four qualified
    persons, two from A TIC and two from the panel of consultants, decided
    upon the final identification for each sighting report. This work was done
I   at A TIC, periodically, as reports became ready.


I         During an identification conference, each sighting report was first
    studied, from the original data, by one person. If that person arrived at a
    decision, it was checked against the preliminary identification; if the two

I   identifications were the same, the report was appropriately marked and
    considered finished. If the two identifications did not agree, the report
    was considered later by everyone participating in the conference until a
I   group decision could be made.


I          If an evaluator was unable to categorize the report as one of the
    common objects or as a natural phenomenon, and his opinion was that the
    sighting should be recorded as UNKNOWN, a group decision was also re­
I   quired on that report before it was considered finished. A group decision
    was necessary on all reports finally recorded as UNKNOWN, regardless of
    what the preliminary identification had been. In cases where a group
I   decision was not made within a reasonable time, the report was put aside
    and later submitted to certain members of the panel of consultants for their

I   op1n1ons. If, after this, disagreement continued to exist, the report of the
    sighting was identified as UNKNOWN.

I                                        13

I
                                                                                 I
     Upon completion of final identifications, all data were transferred to      I
IBM cards, preparatory to analysis.
                                                                                 I
                         ANALYSIS OF THE DA TA                                   I
       Broadly stated, the problem at this point consisted of the judicious
                                                                                I
application of scientific met~ods of categorizing and analyzing the sub­
jective data in reports of sightings of unidentified aerial objects. It was
recognized that an approach to this problem could best be made by a sys­
                                                                                I
tematic sorting and tabulation program to give frequency and percentage
distributions of the important characteristics of sightings. A suggestion       I
that an attempt be made to anticipate all questions that might be asked in
the future about a sighting or a group of sightings, and to provide answers,
was rejected. The systematic approach also made it possible to develop
                                                                                I
a detailed reference manual of the attributes of the sightings included in
this study.                                                                     I
       Thus, at the beginning of the analysis, a detailed plan was developed
for sorting, counting, and tabulating the information from the punched-card
                                                                                I
abstracts of reports of sightings. It was believed at the time, and later
substantiated, that the results of the program for sorting and tabulating
would serve as a, guide for the more sophisticated treatment involving
                                                                                I
statistical methods.

      Also, it was anticipated that any patterns or trends that might be
                                                                                I
found could be subjected to concentrated study in the hope of discovering
significant information relating to the characteristics of "flying saucers".
                                                                                I
Further, it was believed that these trends could serve as certain of the
criteria of validity for any concepts (models) developed in the attempt to
discover a class of "flying saucers".
                                                                                I
       The three parts of this study ( 1) the sorting and tabulation program,   I
(2) the advanced study of the results of that program, and (3) the investiga­
tion of the possibility of conceiving a model of a "flying saucer" from
descriptions reported, are discussed in sections entitled "Frequency and
                                                                                I
Percentage Distributions by Characteristics", "Advanced Study of the Data",
and "The I Flying Saucer' Model".                                               I
       Frequency and Percentage Distributions by Characteristics                I
       The original conception of this study assumed the availability of
                                                                                I
sufficient data to describe adequately the physical appearance, maneuver
characteristics, range, direction, and probable path of the object or
objects observed. However, familiarity with the data, acquired during the
                                                                                I
                                     14                                         I
                                                                                I
I
~      translation and transcription from reports to punched cards, indicated that

I\L,   there would be relatively few specific variables or factors that would yield
       meaningful correlation studies. Either the original data were too subjec­
       tive, or the incompleteness of the original reports-wo1J:_ld seriously reduce

I      the sample of a specific variable.

             Preliminary tabulations of various sortings substantiated the im­
I      possibility of deriving statistical results from certain variables, such as
       movement of the observer during the sighting, sound, shape parameter,

I      size, angular velocity and acceleration, appearance and disappearance
       bearing, initial and final elevation, altitude, and orientation of the object.
       The statistically usable variables presented in this study include the date,
I      time, location, duration, reliability, and method of observation of the
       sighting, and the physical attributes of number, color, speed, shape, light

I      brightness, and identification of the objects sighted.

              The presentation of frequency and percentage distributions of any of

I      the variables must be interpreted in the light of the sample of incidents
       represented. For example, the analysis of the reported colors of the
       objects sighted, based on ALL SIGHTINGS, could lead to misrepresenta­
I      tion of the distribution of the reported color of the objects, because of the
       multiplicity of reports on some of the phenomena. On the other hand, the

I      percentage distribution of the light brightness reported by each observer
       is more likely to be correct than a distribution based on one report for
       each phenomenon. To assure that the most nearly correct presentation

I      was made, and to avoid the possibility· of failure to uncover any pattern or
       trend inherent in the data, the variables were studied on five different
       bases or samples. These samples, and their numerical relation to each
I      other, were as follows:


I                  ALL SIGHTINGS (all reports)
                   UNIT SIGHTINGS, all observers
                                                              3,201 cards
                                                              2, 554 cards
                   UNIT SIGHTINGS, single observer            2, 232 cards
I                  UNIT SIGHTINGS, multiple observers
                   OBJECT SIGHTINGS
                                                                 322 cards
                                                              2, 199 cards

I      The preliminary tabulations indicated that the samples based on UNIT
       SIGHTINGS, single observer, and UNIT SIGHTINGS, multiple observers,

I      would not add materially to this study. Accordingly, although the fre­
       quency distributions were recorded and are available for study, they are
       not presented in this report.
I            The bases of ALL SIGHTINGS, UNIT SIGHTINGS ( referring to all

'I     observers), and OBJECT SIGHTINGS are presented in Appendix A as
       Tables Al through A240. A critical study of these tabulations reveals that
       there is no apparent change in the distribution of any variable from one

I      basis to another, and that no marked patterns or trends exist in any sample.


_I
                                            15

I
                                                                                   I
Graphical Presentation
                                                                                   I
       Graphical representation of the important information contained in
the tables is presented in Figures l through 38. These figures present the
                                                                                   I
distributions of the important variables only by the total nu.mber of cases
in each identification category, since no significant differences were found
                                                                                   I
between the distributions of "Certain'' and "Doubtful" identifications of
objects with respect to the variables. A chronological study of these
figures will afford a broad picture of the tabulated information, without the
                                                                                   I
necessity of a detailed study of the tables.

      A critical examination of the figures will show that no trends, patterns,
                                                                                   I
or correlations are to be found, with the exception of Figures 18 through 30.
The apparent similarity of the distributions shown by these mirror graphs,
                                                                                   I
Figures 18 through 23, was tested by statistical methods which showed that
there was a low probability- that the distributions of the KNOWNS, and
UNKNOWNS by these characteristics were the same. These tests and their
                                                                                  I
interpretation are discussed in the following section. For purposes of this
study, the strategic areas, shown in Figures 32 through 38, and Tables            I
A223 through A240, Appendix A, were designated on the basis of concen­
tration of reports of OBJECT SIGHTINGS in an area. No other interpre­
tation of the tables or remaining charts was deemed necessary.
                                                                                  I
                         Advanced Study of the Data
                                                                                  I
                                                                                  I
       It was recognized that the lack of any patterns or trends, as shown by
the tabulations and graphs, provided an insecure basis for drawing definite
conclusions. Accordingly, shortly before the sorting and tabulation pro­
                                                                                  I
gram was concluded, a program of study of the data was developed to
utilize statistical and other mathematical methods, which could lead to a
more concrete interpretation of the problem.
                                                                                  I
                                                                                  I
Position of the Sun Relative to the Observer

       The first thing that was done was to calculate the angle of elevation of
                                                                                  I
the sun above the horizon and its bearing from true north as seen by the
observer at the time of each sighting. With this information, it could then       I
be determined whether there was a possibility that the reported object
could have been illuminated by light from the sun. In addition, it could be
determined whether an object could be a mock sun ( sun dog) or whether
                                                                                  I
there was a possibility of specular reflection from an aircraft at the posi­
tion of the object, which would give the appearance of a "flying disc".           I
      A program of computation was set up and carried out to obtain the
angle of elevation and the bearing of the sun for each sighting. All informa­     I
tion needed for this calculation was available on the deck of IBM cards.

                                      16
                                                                                  I
                                                                                  I
    I
    I
    I
    I
    I
    I
    I
    I
    I
    I                  ,1952,
                        1501=
                           68.3%

    I
    I
    I
    I
    I
    I   Object sightings           All sightings   Unit sightings
         2199 =100%                 3201 = 100%    2554 =100%
    I
        FIGURE I FREQUENCY OF SIGHTINGS BY YEAR FOR OBJECT,
    I            UNIT, AND ALL SIGHTINGS
                                                             A-7479
    I
    I
I                                    17

I
~
                                                               I­
                                                               I
                                                               I
                                                               I
                                                               I
                                                               I
                                                               I
                                                               I
                                                               I
                                                               I
                                 474 =21.5%
                                                               I
                                                               I
                                                               I
                                                               I
                                                               I
  Object sightings
  2199=100 %
                     All sightings
                     3201=100%
                                              Unit sightings
                                              2554= 100%
                                                               I
                                                               I
FIGURE 2 DISTRIBUTION OF EVALUATIONS OF OBJECT,
         UNIT, AND ALL SIGHTINGS FOR ALL YEARS
                                                      A-7480
                                                               I
                                                               I
                                                               I
                         18
                                                               I
                                                               I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I                      Unknown
                    434=19.7°1.
                                       Astronomical
I                                      479 =21.8 %


I       1952


I                                           Aircraft

I
I
 I
 I
 I
I
 I   FIGURE 3   DISTRIBUTION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS BY EVALU­
                ATION FOR ALL YEARS WITH COMPARISONS OF
                EACH YEAR FOR EACH EVALUATION GROUP
 I                                                     A•7411



 I
I
I                                 19

11
                  No. of object sightings
            100           2199                 79                    143                186              169               121         1501
                                                                                                                                                   100

            90                                                                                                                                     90

            80                                                                                                                                     80

            70                                                                                                                                     70

            60                                                                                                                                     60
     +­
     c
     ~      50                                                                                                                                     50
     ~
     Q,J
ro
0    a.     40                                                                                                                                     40

            30                                                                                                                                     30

            20                                                                                                                                     20

            10                                                                                                                                      10

             0I     C\\.\.:::<::<>0)J   L>,,),,),,),,\.'\'\1   l'\;\'\\:\,'\'\'1   I\'\»),),).);!   N>,'\',,'\'\>)j   I\Y\'\\.'\'\"l   RL~        I0
                      - ••                   1947                  1948               1949              1950             1951          1952


           FIGURE 4 DISTRIBUTION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS BY EVALUATION FOR ALL YEARS AND EACH YEAR

                                                                                                                                              A-7 4 82
----------------------
                   No. of object sightings
                        70          55           83           127         129         183       638        407         166        125       106        105
                   I F+--1 ;..I   11 I I 11   11 I I I 11   11 I I I I I I I I 11   11 I I I I I I I I 11 11 I I 11 I I I I 11 11 I I 11 I I I I II   11 I I 11 1100

              90
       "'Cl
      ·=.c 80
       +-                                                                                                                                                       80
       Cl

      cn 7 0                                                                                                                                                    70
       +­
       u
       cu
      :.0
      0
          60                                                                                                                                                    60
       "'
      .c
      c0 50                                                                                                                                                     50
       ~

      ~ 40                                                                                                                                                      40
"'     0


      -LLJ

       0
       +­
       c
              30                                                                                                                                                30
       cu
       u'­ 20                                                                                                                                                   20
       cu
       a.
              10                                                                                                                                                  10

               0 I l>.':u>l       I\»'\'I     l>,V0J        l\'\:0::1   ~           ~          l'\'001 J:00-:\'I     L),'\).)I   ~ J l'\'\)-'::J l\»>.J        I0
                         Jon        Feb         Mor           Apr         Moy        June       July       Aug        Sept       Oct         Nov       Dec


     FIGURE 5 DISTRIBUTION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS BY EVALUATION WITHIN MONTHS FOR ALL YEARS
                                                                                                                                                         A-7413
                                                                                                                                                   I
    30               20                               10                       0                               10                 20          30

         All years                        I
                                                                      Astronomical
                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                   I
         1947
         1948
         1949
                          I
                              I
                                                      I                                                            I
                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                   I
         1950                     I                                                                        I
         1951
         195 2
                                          I
                                                  I.                                               I
                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                   I
         All years
         1947
                                              I
                                                                          Aircraft
                                                                          I                I
                                                                                                                   I                               I
         1948
         1949
         1950                             I
                                                  I
                                                      I
                                                                                           I

                                                                                               I
                                                                                                   I                                               I
         195 I                                I                                                I
         195 2                            I                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                          Balloons
         All years
         1947
         1948
                                                          I
                                                          I
                                                              I
                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                   I
         1949
         1950
         195 I
                                              I
                                                                  I
                                                                      I            I
                                                                                       I
                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                   I
         195 2                                        I                                                    I


                                                                      lnsuf. info.
                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                  I                                                                               All years
                                  I

                                          I
                                              I
                                                                                                                                  1947
                                                                                                                                  1948
                                                                                                                                  1949
                                                                                                                                                   I
                                      I
                                              I
                                                      I
                                                                                                                                  1950
                                                                                                                                  195 I
                                                                                                                                  195 2
                                                                                                                                                   I
                     I
                                                                          Unknown
                                                                                                                                  All years
                                                                                                                                                   I
         I                                                                                                                        1947

                 I
                                              I
                                                  I                                                                               1948
                                                                                                                                  1949
                                                                                                                                  1950
                                                                                                                                                   I
             I
                     I
                                                                                                                                  195 I
                                                                                                                                  1952             I
                                                                           Other
                                                                                                                                  All years
                                                                                                                                  1947
                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                  1948
                                                                                                                                  1949
                                                                                                                                  1950
                                                                                                                                  195 I
                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                  1952
                                                                                                                                                   I
   30                20
                          Certain
                                                      10                       0
                                                                          Per Cent
                                                                                                               10
                                                                                                                       Doubtful
                                                                                                                                  20          30
                                                                                                                                                   I
FfGURE 6 DISTRIBUTION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS BY CERTAIN AND
         DOUBTFUL EVALUATIONS FOR ALL YEARS AND EACH YEAR
                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                              22
                                                                                                                                          A•7414
                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                   I
----------------------
                                                                                                                                                                    5001

                                                                                                                                                                    400




              .,
                       sot                                                                                                                                                 ~              1so
               "'
               C
             :;:
              .t::.

               "'
              ....
              II)

               u
                       50t                                                                                                                                                 r::: X r-MK X\ -ISO

              ~
              0
              0
               .....   40t                    I                                                                                                                            IX XTTIX X      -f40

"'
c,a
              .0


              z
               E
               ::,



                       30t                    VI                                                                                                                           I<. X rTT1 X X-130




                       20                                                                                                                                                                      20




                       10                                                                                                                                                                      10




                        01                         I      JX    X a::,::,,,l::±-¥ tf::::3>H::::t:><I   :-   l'Y:I   Cl      :-1               7 1'¥""-Y£1      l   r I I I I I I I I I 110
                            I   J F M A M J   J    A   s O N 01 J   F M A M J   Js O N O IJ F M A M J J A s O N O IJ
                                                                                    A                                  F M A M J   s O N DI J F M A M J J A s O N DI J F M A M J J A s O N D
                                                                                                                                   J   A
                                         1947                               1948                   1949                       1950                   1951                     1952



      FIGURE 7 FREQUENCY OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS AND UNKNOWN OBJECT EVALUATIONS BY MONTHS,
               1947-1952                                                    C-7485
                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                    Astro-
                         n Astro­
                           nomical                                                                                                          Unknown                                                I
                                                             =22.8

                                                                     \                                                         I
                                                                                                                                   I 71=33.3%
                                                                                                                                   I                                                               I
                                                                     '\
                                                                         \
                                                                          \
                                                                             \                                 I
                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                           I   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                              \
                                                                                 \\ I/
                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                      \ /Excellent
                                                                                                                                                                                 lnsuf. info.
                                                                                                                                                                                  9=4.2 o/o
                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                     I
                                                         I
                                                                          2199=
                                                                                                                                                      \

                                                                                                                                                          ''                                       I
                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                            ''
                                         I
                                             I                               100 o/o
                                                                                                                                                              ''                                   I
                             I
                                 I
                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                '
                                                                                                                                                                ''
                 I
                     I
                         I
                                                                                                                                                                     ''                            I
             I
                                                                                                                                                                       '\
         I
                                                                                                                               /I                                           ''                     I
                                 Doubtful                                                                                  ' I                 Good                              ''
                                                                                                       '
                                                                                                           /
                                                                                                               /
                                                                                                                   /               I
                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                      \
                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                             Unknown Astr
                                                                                          /
                                                                                              '
                                                                                                  /
                                                                                                      ,'                               I
                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                             188 =
                                                                                                                                           24.8 o/o
                                                                                                                                                     nomic
                                                                                                                                                       -2
                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                      I                                                '
                                                                                  I
                                                                              I
                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                  croft

                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                         lnsuf. info.
                                                                          27=3.6%
                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
FIGURE 8 DISTRIBUTION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS BY SIGHTING
         RELIABILITY GROUPS WITH EVALUATION DISTRIBUTIONS
         FOR EACH GROUP
                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                          A-748S
                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                           24
                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
----------------------
                 No. of object sightings
                       2199                   79                     143                                             186                   169                            121                         1501
           100                                                                                                                                    I                                                               100
                     Excellent
           90 t--
                                 ' ' ',                         ,,              -- --                                           ''                            ,,                 ----   ---                      - 90
                                                        ,, ,,                                                                        ',,              ,,,
                                                                                                                                                          ,
                                          '          I'
           80 ,-                                                                                                                                                                                                 - 80
                      Good
           70    -                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                /               ',                                                                               - 10
                                                                                                        I                        ',
      ~    60 ,-                                                                            I
                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                      ',              _, ,    ---                  ''                            - 60
                             -                                                      I
                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                        ',
      C
      cu                          ----               -----                  _v                                                                                                               ',
      u... 50 -                                                                                                                                                                                                  - 50
N)
(JI
      cu
      a. 40 t--
                     Doubtful                                                                                                   ---                   r,                                                         - 40
                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                           ' ''
           3011-
                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                  '
                                                                                                                                                                      '                                          - 30
                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                   ''
           20It-                 ----- -
                                                                                                I
                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                                        ' ',                     - 20
                                                     ''                                 I
                                                                                            I

            10i""                                         ''                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 - 10
                      Poor                                     ''           -
                                                                                I



             0I                                                                                                             I                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                             - 0
                     All years                1947                   1948                                            1949                  1950                           1951                        1952


      FIGURE 9 DISTRIBUTION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS AMONG THE FOUR                                                                                                    SIGHTING          RELIABILITY
               GROUPS FOR ALL YEARS AND EACH YEAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                       A-74 87
                                   (>'
                             •-:-..v
                            0~           ,        ~0·
                           0~          ~     ~ ·,$'     ~(:-
                      ,~          CJ~ ~00~-    t- (:-0
                   t/-"'        .;/' <c~(:-;_o~~~

           ~
                                 ~                                          1 ■111111
                                                                                                                            ~ ~~~
           ~                                                                                 •                              ~ ~
           6 -- 2's- -           so--        1Slbb \o               2s  1
                                                                             s'o    1 s -,ob \b
                                                                                    1
                                                                                                   21s       s'o    T's   ,db\6    21s      s'o       1s    100
     45r-l---Per Cent_ _ / _ \ ~ - - - - - - - - / ~ - - - - - - - - / _ \ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _/_

     4Qt--1------------J-l-----------/---\---4""'-------..---I-I------------J--


     3 St--1------------,--1-----------,---1--

"'   3 Qt--1-----------'                                       ,   __
 -
~                                                                                    1--,-----1 - -



 uCcu 2 S t - - - 1 - - - - - _ : __ __ 1 - - - 1 - - Civilian                           ------1--       Civilian

 ~
 ~   20t--1-------- 1---1--                                                          1--------- 1--



     I 5t-- \--------I---- I -


                                             e [
                                                                                     1---------1-                   1--------1--                       f--•----



                                                                                     1----------1-                  - - - - - 1--1       Ci villa n    1-----1 - -
     IOI       I
                     I Civilian              t-----                 I Military
                                                                                                  W Military
      51       0 Military                                                            1------                        i--------1


      01       J          I                                         I                I               !              !             ':j Military I
                       Excellent                                             Good                        Doubtful                          Poor

     FIGURE 10 DISTRIBUTION OF ALL SIGHTINGS BY SIGHTING RELIABILITY GROUPS. SEGREGATED BY
               MILITARY AND CIVILIAN OBSERVERS WITH EVALUATION DISTRIBUTION FOR EACH
               SEGREGATtON                                                           A-1411
I
I
I
          IQO,r,:::+=+=11=+:+:::i:+r-r.r-r..r:,-0.;:r+:r+.:r~i-T~_f1_J7...,. 7'_J-rr.._                  +-r+-r                          r...,.r-1-1rr-"'[_"I."I.T..LL~n, IO 0
I
                                                                           7...,.                _,_T_._,-    .._ri.....rrwwT---1-T---1-T
                                                                                                                                        ....




           90                                                                                                                                                           90
I                   Unknown

                                                                                                                                                                        80
I
                                                                                                                                                                        70
I
                                                                                                                                                                        60 +­
I   +­
    c
    cu
    u
                                                                                                                                                                                 c
                                                                                                                                                                                 cu
                                                                                                                                                                                 u
                                                                                                                                                                        50 "­
I   L..
    cu
    a.
                                                                                                                                                                           cu
                                                                                                                                                                                 a.
                                                                                                                                                                        40
I
                                                                                                                                                                        30
I
                                                                                                                                                                        20
I
                                                                                                                                                                         10
I
I                   \
                        \
                            \
                                \
                                    \
                                                                                     I
                                                                                         I
                                                                                         I
                                                                                         I
                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                  i,
                                                                       '
I                                        White        Metallic
                                                                            Not
                                                                           stated OrangE Red                                             Other

I                                       23.5 %          17.7%              12.3% 10.0% 8.1%                                            28.4%


I       FIGURE II DISTRIBUTION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS BY REPORTED COLORS
                  OF OBJECT(S) WITH EVALUATION DISTRIBUTION FOR EACH
I                 COLOR GROUP
                                                                                                                                                              A•7419
I
I
I                                                                                   27

I
                                                                                                                                                I
         100-                                                                                  ~,....,....,....,....r-T""S....,...,-100         I
         80-                                                                                   >-+-i---+-+.......,._+-+---<__. -   80
                                                                                                                                                I
         60-                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~ - 6 0
                                                            11 or more objects ~~-0~·~~'Y,f
                                                                                                                                                I
                         3-10 objects

 0. 40-
                         255= 11.6 %                               66=3.0%                                                                      I
 ::::,
 0
 ~
(!)
         20-
                                                                              --
                                                                              "C
                                                                              cu
                                                                              0
                                                                                                                               -20 <!>
                                                                                                                                                I
 C


-                                                                              -
                                                                                                                                         C
·-
.t::.
          0-
                                                                              (I)


                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                        .t::.
                                                                                                                                                I
                        ~~

                                                                              -
31';

-                                                                                                                                       -
                                                                              C
                        u 0                                                               ~
 C
 cu 100-
(.)
                         cu O')
                        :0 (X)
                        0    II
                                                                              (I)

                                                                              u
                                                                              cu
                                                                              °EN
                                                                                 .             ~,...,..T""T""'S,..........~ -      IO O cu
                                                                                                                                          C

                                                                                                                                        (.)
                                                                                                                                                I
 ~
 cu
a.. 80-
                        (\J (0
                            O')
                                             I object                         -
                                                                              o
                                                                                  0       II

                                                                                          v
                                                                                          (0   ;c:...~-<":-<":v:vvccc;
                                                                                                    ,,....,,...."",,v'X,Y~'C◊O: - 8 0 Q..
                                                                                                                                          ~

                                                                                                                                          cu    I
                                          1636= 74.4%                          cu
                                                                                  ~




         60-
                                                                              .0

                                                                              z
                                                                                  E
                                                                                  ::::,        1----------i-                       60
                                                                                                                                                I
         40-
                                                                                                                                                I
         20-
                                   100- .................- ........-
                                                                                                                               -20
                                                                                                                                                I
                                  o.    t-+-+-+-+-+-+-,r-+-t-+t Unknown



          o_
                                  ::::,
                                  e 80-~~V~v"~V'~-~.,.._.,..ic:J',.~ Others
                                  (!)
                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                lnsuf. info.
                                  c
                                                                                                                                                I
                                  -
                                  :C 60-
                                  31';
                                  -c 40-
                                                                Balloon

                                                                                                                                                I
                                   cu                           Aircraft
                                  (.)
                                  ~
                                  cu 20-
                                  a..
                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                Astronomical
                                                                                                                                                I
         FIGURE 12 DISTRIBUTION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS BY NUMBER OF                                                                                I
                   OBJECTS SEEN PER SIGHTING WITH EVALUATION DISTRI­
                   BUTION FOR EACH GROUP
                                                                                                           A-74 90
                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                I
                                                   28                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                I
----------------------
-   -   --~---------------------------------------------




                100---~-----~~~~~

                9 0-1    No t
                                       1J ! J..111~~1   1
                                                         mm !!!!!!m
                                                            1   1




                                    /~~"'TTT"l7"7"''7"7"'7"?'"7~~~
                                                                                   lnsuf. info.



                eo-1 ~':.~.~. / / ' ~111111-1-----------,1111 1111111
        .
                70
                                    1111111111111~_~1---------,-11111 I111111
                     ~ov;ra~.mi ~ ~ / ; , •



            ~      61
                ::~ ;~;.in        ~r::i IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIl~_~~mffll 11111111111111
    = ~         40
                     -   ~~~:.-   /~~-IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIR===:=filllllllllllll lllll
                30

                          5 ✓~:::~I
                     -~:~30·:::     11111111111111111111111~-====:~BI 1111111111
                : ~: :~e?:: :::::-111111111111111 ~;:==;=91111111111111
                            -,,~-1,1111111,11m1111111
                  O-D~;~t!;:n
                                     0    IO   20           30        40      50        60        70   80   90         100
                                                                    Evaluations in Per Cent


                FIGURE 13 DISTRIBUTION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS BY DURATION OF SIGHTING WITH EVALUATION
                          DISTRIBUTION FOR EACH DURATION GROUP
                                                                                                             A- 7491
                     No. of object sightings
                                  70              55                   83                127                12.9
                                                                                                               -              183                 63_8                   407              -
                                                                                                                                                                                         -1.66                  L25                    106                     LOS
            100                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      100


            90I·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      90
     en                          Not
     Cl                         statec
     C
     :;: 80 -
                                                                                                                                                                     .         ,-,                                                                                   . 80
     .c.                                                                                                              /
                                                                                                                                     ''                      I
                                                                                                                                                                 I                   -        -                                                            I
     Cl
     ·-
     (/)
                                                                                                ,,
                                                                                                                    /
                                                                                                               -"' ....
                                                                                                                                                         r
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ''                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      II
                                                                                                                                                                                                            '                                  II
                                                                                                        I                                                        I             '\                                     '\\                                             70
                                fn;;in -
                     ~
     -      70                                                                                    I                                                          I                                                                                 II
     u                                                                            I                                                   ''                                            ''                                                                I
     Cl)

     'B
                                              -          I\                  I
                                                                             I
                                                                                               ,I                                                                                                      '                           '               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -
                                                          \'
     0 60                                                     '\ '                i                                                                                                                                    \                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      60
                                                                             I                                                                                                                                             \                      I
     en
                                6-30                               '                                                                                                                                                           \              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            C
     .c.
     1:0 50I u
                                min
                                                                                     I              -                   -             ..                      ;'               --                  \
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   \
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Cl)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (.)

                         •               ,;
                                              /          ,.,                 I
                                                                                 I                                                                       I"
                                                                                                                                                                                                       \
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5 0 '­
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Cl)
                         I I)
     ~                                                          '                                                                                                                                                     \                                I                  a.
                         o 61sec                                                                                                                                                                                       \
"'
0    ~ 40I U)I
      0
                              to                                                                                                                                                                                           \
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               \
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     . 40


     --
     w                   ;;; 5min                                                                                                                                              1·,                                             \
                          \
                                       -                  ;
                                                              ,;                 -                  -
                                                                                                                    ,;'
                                                                                                                   ~·


                                                                                                                                      '       ~
                                                                                                                                                         I'
                                                                                                                                                              I                      -            '\
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I          ' I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             - II
      0     30I                 I1_-~y
                                 se_e     \                                                         I
                                                                                                                   V
                                                                                                                        ,;'          I\
                                                                                                                                          \
                                                                                                                                                         /
                                                                                                                                                                                ..                     ''                  ..                  f I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      30
      C                                       \
                                                         .,. ,,·
                                                                                                /                                             '                                                   ,-,
      CV
     U 20 r
                                10-1v
                                 sec     '\'\•
                                                                             '                 I'

                                                                                                                   I'
                                                                                                                        ,,,          r,
                                                                                                                                                                                                     '                     ..                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     . 20
      '­                                  '             - ·,                                        /
                                                                                                                                          \
                                                                                                                                                             /
                                                                                                                                                                 /              '                  -,                 .......                 -,,,·.,,.

                                                                                                                                      ..'                     ,,.               ...
                                                                                                                                                         ~
      Cl)
                                                                                 -             V
     a.                         5 sec
                                 ond
                                                         I' '
                                                          \
                                                            '                    ...              ,,·                    -                               I'
                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,-,      .            ,,,,
            10   I
                                                                                               I"                                                                                                                                                                     10
                                less

             0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                Jon               Feb                  Mor               Apr                May               June                July                   Aug             Sept                   Oct                    Nov                     Dec


     FIGURE 14 DISTRIBUTION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS BY MONTHS AMONG THE EIGHT DURATION
               GROUPS FOR ALL YEARS                                         A-7492
----------------------
           100-
                  ___              ......,..,,,,,,,,,, .......-K\'.\,\.\.\.\.\.\.\l 11 11 I 1111 I P/7?777J1f------txx5o&'x54 I I I I I I 111111 I 11
                                            23.5%                                                          lnsuf. info

            90-         Not
                       stated


           ---i'·"~::-.1II III II I 1•::====~111I IIIII I III
            80-

            70-         Other




      -
      C:
          --------r-f;'~ilIIII
            60- enticular
                         Flam
                                             IIIII~
                                              I I    I      IIIII
                  \~~:~11111111111111~:====;::====::-[ 111111
      QJ
      0     50-
      ~
      QJ
      Q.
(II
            40-

            30-
                  I
                      Elliptical
                                          \\   ~
                                                   1111•
                  4\~11111111111111111111111~~::==:=-.IIIIIIIIIII
            20-

            10-


        i. .--.J, .:~: _ _ 111111.1111111.I ~ .11111111 I.I 111111
             o_
                        Shape
                                               0        10        20        30        40        50
                                                                                 Evaluation in Per Cent
                                                                                                          60         70        80        90        100


           FIGURE 15 DISTRIBUTION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS BY SHAPE OF OBJECT(S) REPORTED WITH
                     EVALUATION DISTRIBUTION FOR EACH SHAPE GROUP
                                                                                                                                      A-7493
     ioo-r-----------K'Z\:\.~\:i 11111111111 IV/T///1                              .KXXXX?t 111 I I 1111111

     90-



     eO-ln;~::~ed' ,/~~                                                    11111~~~::::::=::::~111111111111

   ~ : ~I   ffl • ~-u   ;:::~:~II I111111111111111 ~t:==:=:;: : : : : ==~t: :=: : =jgm I1111111111111111

~ i ::~ :~i~t / i B II II IIII IIII IIIl~t=:::=:::=t:=:::::::=:::=::::::::~91111111111111111
    : ~:~;~~~o :~::;~]! 1111111111~~11111111111
      1    15t


      :~       ~~~~:-1,111111.-t:::==c::::==:t:::==,_____ffl 1111 l1111111
              :~::Y
                              0 ·    10  30 20  40       50      60 70  80     90                        100
                                          Evaluation in Per Cent
     FIGURE 16 DISTRIBUTION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS BY REPORTED SPEED OF OBJECT(S) WITH
               EVALUATION DISTRIBUTION FOR EACH SPEED GROUP
                                                                                                A-7494
----------------------
                 No. of all sighting
                          3201                          117                      205                     164                                 306                                    160                                    2018
          100-                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -100
                        Location
   ~ 90-                  not                                              ,,,                                                                                                             ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -90
    ...
   +­                                                             ., ,/'                ''                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                            '
                         stated , ... ...         -                                          ' ' ',                                                                         I                    ''
    &,  80-                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                           ''                          -so
    <11                                                                                                                                                             I
   0::                                                                                                          \                                               I
                                                                                                                    \
                                                                                                                         \                                  I
    u,    70-                                                                                                                                           I                                                                              -70
   ·-"' 60-
                                                                                                                             \
                                                                                                                                 \                  I
    C                                                                                                                                \              I
                        Outdoors                                                                                                         \

   .c
   +-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -60
   ·-"'
   f/)  50-                                                                                                                                                                 ,,                                                         -50
                    ~
                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                                                                                                           ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                           ~ \


                                                                                                                                                    , ,, ,
   ~
                                                                                                                                                       //
c,,.._              "
                   .c                                                  ,,--                                                                          ,                                         '\
                                                                                                                                                                                                   \,,,
                                                                                                                                                    , I,
          40-      +-                                         1_-:;.,'                  ~
(1,1 0
                   0                    .--:-
                                    ._,,,,,,                                             ~                                       ,,,                                                       \
                                                                                                                                                                                               \               ,,                      -40
                                                                                          ~                              ,,,, ,,,
   +­               '
                                         ',/                                               ~                                                            ,                                          \               ~
    c
    <11   30-           In bldg.
                                                                  ''                                ~~              .,
                                                                                                                11~,"                               /                                                  \
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -30
   u                                 /
                                          /                            ''                    ...... _            ,.,,.,
                                                                                                                                 ,.,,                                                                      \
                                                                                                                                                                                                               \
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   \
    I,.                                                                                                                                                                                                                \
   "20-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -20
                        In plane
                                         ,.,,,, ,,,-
   o.                                                         '
          10-
                                    II
                                                                  ' ' , ...             _, ,   --               ---                                 ----                                       ........                                -10
                        In car
           0                                                                                                                                                                                                                           _Q
                        All years                      1947                      1948                    1949                                1950                                   1951                                   1952

          FIGURE 17 DISTRIBUTION OF ALL SIGHTINGS BY OBSERVER LOCATION FOR ALL YEARS AND
                    EACH YEAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A-74 95
                     Total Less Unknown                                     Unknown
                         Pe-r Cent                                          Per Cent
            30   25      20    15   10    5   0                0   5   10    15   20   25   30
        I   I    I        I    I     I    I                        I   I     I    I    I    _1       _j




                                                    White


                                                  Meta II ic


                                                  Not stated
Of
~

                                                   Orange


                                                     Red


                                                    Other



     FIGURE 18 COMPARISON OF KNOWN AND UNKNOWN OBJECT SIGHTINGS BY COLOR,1947-1952
                                                                                                 A-7496
-~--------------------
                         Total Less Unknown                                              Unknown
                              Per Cent                                                    Per Cent
           80   70   60    50   40   30   20   10       0                0   IO   20   30 40 50 60   70   80
       I   I    I    I      I   I    I    I    I




                                                               One


                                                   -
                                                               Two


c,,
(JI                                                           Three
                                                                to
                                                               ten
                                                       ..     Eleven
                                                                 or
                                                       ■
                                                               more
                                                       ■




                                                            Not stated
                                                       ■




      FIGURE 19 COMPARISON OF KNOWN ANO UNKNOWN OBJECT SIGHTINGS BY NUMBER OF
                OBJECTS PER SIGHTING, 1947-1952
                                                                                                     A- 7497
                       Total Less Unknown                                                    Unknown
                           Per Cent                                                          Per Cent

             40   35   30   25   20   15   IO   5       0                  0   5   IO   15   20   25    30   35   40
         I   I    I    I    I    I    I     I   I                              I   I    I     I   I     I    I    I    I




                                                            Stationary


                                                             Less than
                                                             100 mph

                                                            100 to400
(1,1                                                          mph
0)


                                                            More than
                                                            400mph

                                                -           Meteor-Ii ke
                                                                           -
                                                    -
                                                        Not stated
                                                                           -

       FIGURE 20 COMPARISON OF KNOWN AND UNKNOWN OBJECT SIGHTINGS BY SPEED, 1947-1952
                                                                                                                  A-7491
----------------------
                       Total Less Unknown                                      Unknown
                            Per Cent                                           Per Cent
                  30   25    20   15    10   5   0                0   5   10   15   20    25   30


                                                     5 seconds
                                                                  t
                                                      or less
                                                       6-10
                                                      seconds
                                                       11-30
                                                      seconds
                                                       31-60
"'...a                                                seconds
                                                     61 seconds
                                                     5 minutes
                                                       6-30
                                                      minutes

                                                 More than
                                                 30 minutes

                                                 Not stated



         FIGURE 21 COMPARISON OF KNOWN AND UNKNOWN OBJECT SIGHTINGS BY DURATION, 1947-1952
                                                                                                A-7499
                 Total Less Unknown                                                Unknown
                    Per Cent                                                       Per Cent
          50 45 40 35 30 25 20 15     10   5   0                 0   5   10   15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50


                                                   Elliptical

                                                    Rocket
                                                      and
                                                    aircraft
                                                   Meteor or
                                                     comet
                                                   Lenticular,
c,,                                                conicol or
a,                                         U        teardrop

                                                     Flame


                                               Other shop,

                                               Not stated



      FIGURE 22 COMPARISON OF KNOWN AND UNKNOWN OBJECT SIGHTINGS BY SHAPE, 1947-1952
                                                                                                   A•7500
----------------------
                    Total Less Unknown                                                    Unknown
                        Per Cent                                                          Per Cent
               60   50   40      30   20   10       0                 0         IO   20   30   40       50   60
           I   I    I        I   I    I    I                                    I    I    I     I       I    I        I



                                                         Sunlight on
                                                         mirror or
                                                         aluminum
                                                -        Sunlight on     -
                                                         plaster,
                                                --       stone or soil

                                                          Brighter
                                                                         -
                         /



(1,1                                                     than moon
                                                                         -
U)
                                                    ~




                                                         Like moon
                                                    ..                   ,...
                                                 -                       ...
                                                          Duller
                                                                                                    '
                                                         than moon ...
                                                 -
                                                         Not stated




       Fl GURE 23 COMPARISON OF KNOWN AND UNKNOWN OBJECT SIGHTINGS BY LIGHT BRIGHTNESS,
                  1947-1952
                                                                                                                 A•7501
             Total Less Astronomical                            Astronomical
                    Per Cent                                      Per Cent
        40     30      20       10     0               0   10       20         30   40

                                       j               t
                                            January
                                            February
                                             March
                                             April
                                             May
..
0
                                             June
                                             July
                                           August
                                           September
                                            October
                                           November
                                           December


     FIGURE 24 COMPARISON OF MONTHLY DISTRIBUTION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS EVALUATED AS
               ASTRONOMICAL VERSUS TOTAL OBJECT SIGHTINGS LESS ASTRONOMICAL

                                                                                     A-7502
----------------------
                 Total Less Aircraft                            Aircraft
                       Per Cent                                 Per Cent
         40      30      20       10   0               0   10     20       30     40


                                            January
                                                       t
                                           February
                                            March
                                             April
                                             May
                                             June
~

                                             July
                                            August
                                           September
                                            October
                                           November
                                           December


    FIGURE 25   COMPARISON OF MONTHLY DISTRIBUTION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS EVALUATED AS
                AIRCRAFT VERSUS TOTAL OBJECT SIGHTINGS LESS AIRCRAFT
                                                                                A-7503
                    Total Less Balloon                              Balloon
                         Per Cent                                  Per Cent
            40      30     20        10   0               0   10     20       30       40

                                          l   January
                                                          t
                                              February
                                               Morch
                                               April
                                                Moy

~                                               June
I\)

                                               July
                                              August
                                              September
                                               October
                                              November
                                              December


      FIGURE 26   COMPARISON OF MONTHLY DISTRIBUTION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS EVALUATED
                  AS BALLOON VERSUS TOTAL OBJECT SIGHTINGS LESS BALLOON
                                                                                   A-7 504
----------------------
                 Total Less lnsuff icient Information                     lnsuff icient    Information
                             Per Cent                                               Per Cent
            40          30       20        10         0               0       10          20     30       40
                         I        I        I
             \


                                                  j
                                                           January

                                                          February
                                                           March
                                                           April
                                                            May
                                                            June
  •
  c,,
                                                            July
                                                           August
                                                          September
                                                          _ October
                                                          November
                                                          December


        FIGURE 27 COMPARISON OF MONTHLY DISTRIBUTION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS EVALUATED AS
                  INSUFFICIENT INFORMATION VERSUS TOTAL OBJECT SIGHTINGS LESS INSUFFI­
                  CIENT INFORMATION
                                                                                                         A-7505




--/
                    Total Less Other                              Other
                       Per Cent                                  Per Cent
          40       30     20       10   0               0   10     20       30   40


                                             January
                                                        t
                                            February
                                             March
                                              April
                                              May

..                                            June
                                              July
                                             August

                                            September
                                             October
                                            November
                                            December


     FIGURE 28   COMPARISON OF MONTHLY DISTRIBUTION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS EVALUATED AS
                 OTHER VERSUS TOTAL OBJECT SIGHTINGS LESS OTHER
                                                                                 A-7506
----------------------
                 Total Less Unknown                            Unknown
                       Per Cent                                Per Cent
          40    30      20       10   0               0   10     20       30   40

                                      j
                                           January
                                                      t
                                          February
                                           March
                                           April
                                            May
                                            June
~
u,
                                            July
                                           August
                                          September
                                           October
                                          November
                                          December


     FIGURE 29 COMPARISON OF MONTHLY DISTRIBUTION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS EVALUATED AS
               UNKNOWN VERSUS TOTAL OBJECT SIGHTINGS LESS UNKNOWN

                                                                               A•7507
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                   90
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                   80

            -                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
    -                   \
            C
    -co 60  Cl>

      ...
    ~ cu 40 a.
                                                                                        Unknown
                                                                                                                               V\                                                                                           I
                                                                                    I ~ "~~ \ I
                                                                                                           \

                                                ~                                                                                                           \_        ,                                    '-
                   20
                    r
                             i..:::: ~
                                         -- I            ....... "'-::
                                                                         ::....                                                           ~-           -,
                                                                                                                                                          I~
                                                                                                                                                               ~- - ,1/ I'- I       \
                                                                                                                                                                                                           ~




            -
                   3~                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                        \
    1/)
            C      60
    C
            (.)
            Cl>
    ~
    0        ... 40                                                                                                            ('                                                                                           I
                                                                                                          \ I \\._
    C       Cl>                                                                         Unknown
    ~       a.
                                                ,a:.._                    ~-~~,
                                                                             "hf/,'                                                                                ;, -~                               ,..:::..
                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                            \
                   20
                             IL ~ -- I "'                      .:.;:; ,._                                                                                                                        - ,:,,,               I
                   3§                                                                                                                                  ~----
                                                                                                                                                                                        '                         '         I
            -
    -
    ...0 (.) 60
            C
            Cl>


    <t a.... 40
    1/)
                        I
                         I
                         I
                                                                                                                               v                                                                                            I
                                                                                    / , Vr\ ,/ \b< ~, ✓- ~ r:..:: ,, h.,v y
            Cl>
                                                                                        \Unkn~~ h
                                                                                                                           J,,
                   20

                   3§
                               ,
                              , ''
                                         -   ) ~ -- V-- ~ ,                               ~L
                                                                                                  ----    ~                                       ~       _,_:,,
                                                                                                                                                                                \
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
    -...... -
     C
            C
            (.)
            Cl>
                   60                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                          \ / \ -~ l?- ,__ ? /
     0

    <i ~
                   40                                                                   Unknown
                                                                                                                               I
                   20
                             - -- !/            1/- ~ .:.:_
                                                                         f-"a- ii
                                                                                  [\,..::. / '
                                                                                               "-.J.;                                                                  I \
                                                                                                                                                                            ~                 -::-,
                                                                                                                                                                                                           ¾
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       v'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                   '
                             ,/
                                                                                                                                          ~               ✓
                   a§
     C
            -                                                                                                                                                                                                  "'           I
                        \ I
            C
     0             60
    -C (.) 40
            Cl>
     0

      cu
    m a.    -                                                                           Unknown                                I\                                                                                           I
                                                ~                                       /'-. "N
                                                                                                                                                                                                      I ~ ~;-
                                                                                                               \
                   20                                    ~                              -' \.,                     \
                                                                                                                                                                   .,::..
                                                                                                                                                                            \



                             < ' --''                                               I     ......... ~' _.. '-.;\
                                                                                                                       \

                                                                                                                           I                      _;~ -✓- ~ -- --
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                :::.:::.:: ..::::                                                                                                              ---
                    0
                   38
     ._     -(.)
            C



    -
     Cl>
    .s::.
    0 ... 40
            Cl>


            Cl>
                   60


                        \                                                               Unknown                                i.-,
                                                                                                                               ,,                                                                                           I
            a.

                                             / k: ~ V~~~ I\ j
                                                ~
                                                                                               "t,'
                                                                                                          ~

                                                                                                                                      \                            l/ ~ "-                             ' ::>< ~
                   20
                    0
                             ~ ~ I,,.,.
                                                                         '                                                                I',..   ~   -.::: ~                               ""' -
                                                                                                                                                                                                 f1/                  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
   M Number ofl
   I objects
                        n~
                        ~~~~be,f~~~~;,•b~
                                 \,~(§;!~~aa:-~~:~-,~!:t;!~~~o~-e\,:~~e~~e~
                                                                       ~-..,~~eb
                                     ~,i~o~\o~ w; ~o' ~era,,,, , "- "'(,~~o
                                         0


                                        Color
                                              Q~                    '        '


                                                                                 Speed                                     Shape                            Duration
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
FIGURE             30 CHARACTERISTICS PROFILES OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS BY
                      TOTAL SAMPLE, KNOWN EVALUATIONS, AND INDIVIDUAL KNOWN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                      EVALUATIONS, WITH UNKNOWN EVALUATIONS SUPERIMPOSED
                                                                                                                                                                                                 B-7508                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                              46
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
I


    ----------------------
                                                                                                                              65"




                                                                                                                                    40"




     ~                                                                                                                              35"
     --.J




                                                                                                                                    30"




            KEY: IN EACH SUBDIVISION THE TOP FIGURE                                                                                 45'
                 INDICATES THE FREQUENCY OF ALL
                 SIGHTINGS, THE MIDDLE FIGURE UNIT
                 SIGHTINGS, ANO THE BOTTOM FIGURE
                 OBJECT SIGHTINGS

                                            115"




            FIGURE 31               FREQUENCY OF OBJECT, UNIT, AND ALL SIGHTINGS WITHIN THE UNITED STATES 1947-1952, BY SUBDIVISIONS
                                    OF ONE DEGREE OF LATITUDE AND LONGITUDE
            1:11'                 ll!l"         110"                   105°   100"   95"         90"          BS0   BO"         750   111"         65"




                                                                                     CANADA
     15"




     411"
                                                                                                                                                                411"




                                                              CENTRAL WEST
                                                                59-10°'

~
     35"
00




     311"




     25"
                                                                                                                                                                  45°




             1211"         115"                        105"                                95"         911"               BS"
                                                                                                                                             65"         611"


                     FIGURE 32    DISTRIBUTION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS BY EVALUATION FOR THE TWELVE REGIONAL
                                  AREAS OF THE UNITED STATES, WITH THE STRATEGIC AREAS LOCATED (STRATEGIC
                                  AREAS WERE DETERMINED OH THE BASIS OF CONCENTRATION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS)
----------------------
                                                                                                6\0




                                                                      Balance of Central East
                                                                              Region
                                                                          81 object sightings

~
CD
                                                                                                  36




     FIGURE 33 COMPARISON OF EVALUATION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS IN THE STRATEGIC AREAS OF THE
               CENTRAL EAST REGION                                       a- 7511
      10/5                    1010                            915




      43
             ~                l                           ~     \
                                                                ;
                                                                          ~
                                                                          ~   \ r J\ L>l\ \
                                                                              1
                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                 J




(JI
0




      36         I
                 l           I       Balance of Central
                                     Midwest    Region             II
                                     164 object s i g h t i n g s , \
                                                                                  )   V   ~,.   \/       \   -
                                                                                                                     (




                           1010                                     915




                 FIGURE   34 COMPARISON OF EVALUATION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS IN THE STRATEGIC AREAS OF
                             THE CENTRAL MIDWEST REGION                              a-7512
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I                                  Farwest Region


I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
    FIGURE 35 COMPARISON OF EVALUATION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS
I    IN THE STRATEGIC AREAS OF THE CENTRAL FARWEST REGION
                                                    B-7515

I
I                             51

I
                      1010                               9\0




                                                                                                                36




     36
          t               J                         I\ ~ 2\F                                t1

UI
N
                              e2 object sightings
                                           0
                                         Waco




                                                                     210 object sightings



                   ICIO                                        9\0                               8\5


              FIGURE 36. COMPARISON OF EVALUATION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS IN THE STRATEGIC AREAS
                         OF THE SOUTH MIDWEST REGION
                                                                                                       B-7514
----------------------
                                                                         10/5          1010




                                                  9 e object slvhtlnvs
                                                   Albuquerque                                36

                                                          •

(11
(>I

      :)   ,




                                                                                1010


      FIGURE 37 COMPARISON OF EVAWATION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS IN THE STRATEGIC AREAS OF
                THE SOUTH WEST REGION                                     A-7515
                                                            I
                                                            I
                                                            I
                                                            I
                                                            I
                                                            I
                                                            I
                                                            I
                                                            I
                                                            I
      Balance of South
      Farwest Region
      19 object sightings
                                                            I
                                                            I
                                                            I
                                                            I
                                                            I
                                                            I
                                                            I
                                                            I
FIGURE 38 COMPARISON OF EVALUATION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS IN
                                                            I
          THE STRATEGIC AREAS OF THE SOUTH FARWEST REGION
                                               B-7516       I
                            54
                                                            I
                                                            I
 I
 I    This information consisted of:

 I          ( 1) Time and date of observation in Greenwich Civil Time


 I          (2)   Latitude and longitude of the observer at the time of
                  observation.


 I          Figure 39 shows a celestial sphere on which Z represents the ob­
      server's zenith, ~ represents the sun, and N represents the north celestial

 I    pole.

             Using the date and time of the observation, the longitude and declina­

 I    tion (§) of the sun were obtained from an ephemeris of the sun and corrected
      for the equation of time. The difference between the longitudes of the sun
      and the observer was taken, and called the hour angle (HA on Figure 39).
 I           Then, using the declination of the sun (S), the latitude of the observer

 I    (lat), and the hour angle (HA), the angle (ZS)between the observer's zenith
      and the sun can be calculated from the law of cosines of spherical trigo­
      nometry. Thus, cos ZS = cos (90 - lat) cos (90 - S) + sin (90 - lat) sin

 I    (90 - S) cos (HA).

            Since the angle ZS is measured from the observer's zenith, the angle
 I    of elevation of the sun above the horizon for daytime sightings was found by
      taking 90 - ZS. When the sun was below the horizon, the angle of depres­

 I    sion of the sun below the horizon was found by taking ZS - 90.

            Having found the angle ZS, the bearing of the sun ( angle B} was ob­
 I    tained from the formula:


 I                                sin (B)
                                  sin(90-S)
                                            =    sin (HA)
                                                 sin (ZS}


 I          All of the above calculations were made with IBM equipment. Sines,
      cosines, and their inverses were obtained from a deck of 9,000 IBM cards
      on which seven-place Peter 1 s tables of the sines, cosines, and tangents of
 I    angles had been punched for each 0.01 of a degree ·from O to 90 degrees.


 I           Upon completion of these calculations, the cards representing OBJECT
      SIGHTINGS were sorted on the sign of the sine of the bearing angle. This
      separated the cards into two groups: ( 1) sightings which occurred between

 I    noon and midnight, for which the sine of the bearing angle was positive; and
      (2) sightings between midnight and noon, for which the sine of the bearing
      angle was negative. Then each of these groups was sorted into groups for
 I    intervals of 10° in angle of elevation of the sun from -90° to +90°. A count
      was made of the number of cards in each group and from this a histogram

 I    was constructed (Figure 40}. The UNKNOWN OBJECT SIGHTINGS were
      then sorted out, counted in the same manner, and a histogram was made
      (again see Figure 40).
 I                                          55

__I
                                             I
                                             I
                                             I
                                             I
                                             I
                                             I
                                             I
                                             I
                                             I
                                             I
                                             I
                                             I
                                             I
                                             I
FIGURE 39 DIAGRAM OF A CELESTIAL SPHERE      I
                                  A· 75 35
                                             I
                                             I
                                             I
                                             I
                                             I
                  56
                                             I
                                             I
~---------------------
           300

           275

           250
                                                                                           I
           225                                                                             I
   Cl)
                                                                                         Sun~t
  --
   0                                                                                       I
   C       200                                                                             I
                                                                                           I
  .s:
   0
           175
  -
  en
   u
  ......
   Cb
  .0
         150

  -
  0
(710
__, "-
   Cb
           125

           100                         I
                                        I
                                        I
                                                             All object sightings ------+--41►

  .0
   E
                                        I
                                        I   •
                                                           Unknown object sightings
   ::::,                            Sun,I rise
  z         75                         I
                                        I
                                        I
                                       I
            50                         I
                                       I
                                       I
                                        J
            25

             0   I    I         I

            -90      -60      -30      0         +30   +60     +90      +60        +30     0     -30   -60      -90

                                                   Angle of Elevation of The Sun

           Fl GURE 40 FREQUENCY OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS BY ANGLE OF ELEVATION OF THE SUN, INTERVALS
                          OF 10 DEGREES OF ANGLE
                                                                                                       A-7536
                                                                                  I
      The following points should be carefully noted about these histograms:      I
      ( 1)   The negligible number of sightings when the sun is within
             10° of the zenith and nadir (angle of elevation of the sun =
                                                                                  I
             ± 90 °) of the observer is due to the fact that the southern-
             most latitude of the U. S. is greater than the declination
             of the sun at the summer solstice, so that it would be im-
                                                                                  I
             possible for the sun to reach the zenith or nadir of any
             observer in the U. S. (where most of the sightings were
                                                                                  I
             made).

      (2)    The time of day at which a particular angle of elevation
                                                                                  I
             of the sun occurs does not remain fixed but varies from
             day to day. Consider, for example, the variation in                  I
             sunrise and sunset times over the course of a year.

        Thus, there are only two inferences to be made from this histogram:
                                                                                  I
( 1) the high peak of sightings soon after sunset, and (2) the lack of increase
in the UNKNOWNS relative to the KNOWNS near either sunset or sunrise.
This would seem to discount the possibility that atmospheric phenomena
                                                                                  I
such as mock suns were the primary cause of the unknown reports, since
such phenomena usually occur when the sun is near the horizon.                    I
      The Local Sun Time was computed as a step in the calculation of the
angle of elevation of the sun. It is related to the hour angle by the equation:
                                                                                  I
Local Sun Time (L. S. T.) = HA/15 + 12. 00, where L. S. T. is in hours and
HA in degrees.                                                                    I
      The cards were grouped on the basis of L. S. T. in intervals of one
hour, and the number of cards in each interval was counted. Again the
                                                                                  I
UNKNOWNS were sorted out and similarly treated. Histograms were con­
structed with the results of these tabulations of OBJECT SIGHTINGS
(Figure 41). Here, again, there is a peak in the early evening hours.
                                                                                  I
      The cards were then broken up into seven groups on the basis of the         I
angle of elevation of the sun, as follows:

      Group 1 - Daylight sightings for which the sun was more than
                                                                                  I
                10° above the horizon.

      Group 2 - Sunset sightings for which the sun was between 0°
                                                                                  I
                and 10° above the horizon.
                                                                                  I
     Group 3 - Sunset sightings for which the sun was between 0°
               and 10° below the horizon.                                         I
     Group 4 - Evening sightings for which the sun was between
               10° and 40° below the horizon.                                     I
                                        58                                        I
                                                                                  I
----------------------
             300

             275

             250

      & 225
      --
      C
      +-

      --en-a, 200
      +-
      0
      a.,
             175
      ·--

                                                                                    ~
      ..0


      -
      0      150 Midnight                                                                           :Midnight
                                                                                                    I
      0                                                                                             I
       ~
                                                               Noon                                 I
(JI
       a.,   125                                                                                    I
CD
      ..0                                                        I
                                                                 I                                  I
      E
      :,
      z      100                   All object sightings   ,_     I
                                                                 I


              75r   L   Unknown ;.bject sightings ~ ~
                                                                 I



              50

              25


                            0300        0600       0900        1200         1500   1800   2100    2400
                                                          Loco I Sun Time
             FIGURE 41 FREQUENCY OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS BY LOCAL SUN TIME, INTERVALS OF ONE HOUR
                                                                                                 A-7537
                                                                             I
      Group 5 - Night sightings for which the sun was more than 10°
                                                                             I
                below the horizon and which were not included in
                Group 4.                                                     I
      Group 6 - Sunrise sightings for which the sun was between 0°
                and 10° below the horizon.                                   I
      Group 7 - Sunrise sightings for which the sun was between O0
                and 10° above the horizon.
                                                                             I
       These group numbers were punched on the cards and incorporated
into the coding system. The number of OBJECT SIGHTINGS in each group
                                                                             I
for each identification was then tabulated and is given in Table I.
                                                                             I
                      TABLE I       OBJECT SIGHTINGS
                                                                             I
    Identification             1
                                      Angle of Elevation Group
                                      2     3       4      5      6    7     I
Balloon
Astronomical
                              156
                               52
                                     17
                                      6
                                            28
                                            43
                                                    83
                                                   236
                                                           40
                                                          118
                                                                  0
                                                                  9
                                                                       2
                                                                       6     I
Aircraft                      187    23     49     144     60     5    2
Light phenomena
Insufficient information
                                8
                               72
                                      2
                                     12
                                             4
                                            26
                                                    25
                                                    76
                                                            7
                                                           28
                                                                  0
                                                                  2
                                                                       0
                                                                       0
                                                                             I
UNKNOWN
Other
                              134
                               64
                                     14
                                      8
                                            25
                                            12
                                                   150
                                                    50
                                                           86
                                                           36
                                                                  6
                                                                  3
                                                                       7
                                                                       7     I
          Total               673    82    187     764    375    25   24
                                                                             I
      According to this table, a large majority of the KNOWN OBJECT
                                                                             I
SIGHTINGS in Group 1 (343 out of 467) were either aircraft or balloons. In
Groups 4 and 5 combined, a large majority (681 out of 899) were either
balloons, aircraft, or astronomical. Accordingly, a re-evaluation of the
                                                                             I
UNKNOWNS in these three groups was planned with the objective of deter­
mining which of the UNKNOWNS in Group 1 might possibly be aircraft or
                                                                             I
balloons and which of the UNKNOWNS in Groups 4 and 5 might possibly be
balloons, aircraft, or astronomical objects. More will be said of this
project later.
                                                                             I
                                                                             I
Statistical Chi Square Test

     In the meantime, mirror graphs had been constructed from the fre­
                                                                             I
quency tabulations which seemed to show that, when the KNOWNS (total less
UNKNOWNS) and the UNKNOWNS were grouped according to one of six
characteristics, the percentage of KNOWNS and the percentage of
                                                                             I
                                      60
                                                                             I
                                                                             I
I
I   UNKNOWNS in each characteristic group showed the same general trend.
    In other words, on the basis of these graphs, it looked as though there was
I   a good possibility that the UNKNOWNS were no different from the KNOWNS,
    at least in the aggregate. It was decided to investigate this by the use of a

I   statistical procedure called the "Chi Square Test".

           The Chi Square Test is a statistical test of the likelihood that two
I   distributions come from the same population, that is, it gives the proba­
    bility that there is no difference in the make-up of the two distributions
    being measured.
I         The method is outlined as follows:

I         ( 1) Adjust the distributions by multiplying the KNOWNS in each
               characteristic group by the ratio of the total number of
I              UNKNOWNS to the total number of KNOWNS. (The Chi
               Square Test is applicable only to distributions which have

I         (2)
               the same total number of elements.)

                 Take the difference between the number of UNKNOWNS and

I                the adjusted number of KNOWNS in each characteristic
                 group.

I         (3) Square the remainder from Step 2.


I         ( 4)   Divide the result of Step 3 by the corresponding number of
                 adjusted KNOWNS.


I            This is the chi square for the particular group. Summing the indi­
    vidual chi squares over the groups of a characteristic gives the chi square
    for that characteristic. This number is then compared with a table of the
I   distribution of chi square which can be found in many texts on elementary
    s tatis tics.

I         It will be noted that chi square is tabulated in terms of degrees of
    freedom which in this case is one less than the number of groups of sight­
I   ings for each characteristic.


I          The tabulations of KNOWNS and UNKNOWNS against the six char­
    acteristics and the Chi Square Test as it was applied are shown in Tables
    II through VII. In each case, the number of degrees of freedom is given,

I   as is the value of chi squares corresponding to probabilities of 5 per cent
    and 1 per cent that two distributions with this number of degrees of freedom
    come from the same population. Since the greater the value of chi square
I   the smaller the probability of homogeneity of two distributions, a calculated
    value of chi square greater than either the 5 per cent or 1 per cent values

I   will indicate a probability less than 5 per cent or 1 per cent, respectively,
    that the two distributions are homogeneous. The term homogeneity is used
    here to indicate that two distributions could have come from the same
I   population.
                                           61

I
                                                                      I
                                                                      I
                                                                      I
                                                                      I
                                                                      I
             TABLE II    CHI SQUARE TEST OF KNOWNS VERSUS
                                                                      I
                         UNKNOWNS ON THE BASIS OF COLOR
                                                                      I
                               Adjusted                      x2

  Color
                Number of
                KNOWNS
                              Number of
                              KNOWNS (K)
                                             Number of
                                            UNKNOWNS (n)
                                                            (K-n)2
                                                              K
                                                                      I
White
Metallic
                   405
                   313
                                  100
                                   77
                                                 112
                                                  76
                                                              1. 44
                                                             0. 01
                                                                      I
Not stated
Orange
                   209
                   172
                                   51
                                   42
                                                  62
                                                  49
                                                             2.37
                                                             1. 17
                                                                      I
Red                146             36             33         0.25
Yellow
Green
                   128
                   130
                                   31
                                   32
                                                  31
                                                  14
                                                                 0
                                                            10. 13
                                                                      I
Blue
Other
                    67
                   195
                                   17
                                   48
                                                  26
                                                  31
                                                             4. 76
                                                             6.02     I
Total             1765            434            434        26. 15
                                                                      I
Degrees of freedom                                                8
                                                                      I
                                                             15.5
                                                             20. 1    I
                                                                      I
                                                                      I
                                                                      I
                                                                      I
                                                                      I
                                   62                                 I
                                                                      I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
             TABLE III     CHI SQUARE TEST OF KNOWNS VERSUS
I                          UNKNOWNS ON THE BASIS OF NUMBER


I   Number of
    Objects Per     Number of
                                   Adjusted
                                  Number of     Number of
                                                                x2,
                                                              (K-n)2
                                               UNKNOWNS (n)     K
I    Sighting

         1
                    KNOWNS

                         1339
                                  KNOWNS (K)

                                    329            297         3. 11

I        2
        3-10
                          159
                          185
                                     39
                                     46
                                                    37
                                                    70
                                                               o. 10
                                                              12. 52
    11 or more             41        10             25        22. 50
I   Not stated             41        10              5         2.50

    Total                1765       434            434        40.73
I
I   Degrees of freedom                                            4

                                                                9.5
I                                                              13.3


I
I
I
I
I
I                                    63

I
                                                                           I
                                                                           I
                                                                           I
                                                                           I
                                                                           I
                                                                           I
           TABLE IV     CHI SQUARE TEST OF KNOWNS VERSUS                   I
                        UNKNOWNS ON THE BASIS OF SHAPE


                                     Adjusted                     x2
                                                                           I
                                                                {K-n}' 2
        Shape
                        Number of
                        KNOWNS
                                    Number of
                                    KNOWNS {K)
                                                  Number of
                                                 UNKNOWNS (n)     K
                                                                           I
Elliptical
Rocket and aircraft
                           838
                            80
                                         206
                                          20
                                                     195
                                                      33
                                                                 0.59
                                                                 8.45
                                                                           I
Meteor or comet
Teardrop, lenticular,
                            55
                           103
                                          14
                                          25
                                                       4
                                                      22
                                                                 7. 14
                                                                 0.36      I
 or conical
Flame
Other
                            96
                           193
                                          24
                                          47
                                                      10
                                                      54
                                                                 8. 17
                                                                 1.04
                                                                           I
Not stated

Total
                           400

                          1765
                                          98

                                         434
                                                     116

                                                     434
                                                                 3.30

                                                                29.05
                                                                           I
                                                                           I
Degrees of freedom                                                   6

         5%                                                      12.6
                                                                           I
         1%                                                      16.8
                                                                           I
                                                                           I
                                                                           I
                                                                           I
                                                                           I
                                    64
                                                                           I
                                                                           I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I       TABLE V     CHI SQUARE TEST OF KNOWNS VERSUS UNKNOWNS
                    ON THE BASIS OF DURATION OF OBSERVATION

I   Duration of      Number of
                                  Adjusted
                                  Number of     Number of
                                                               x2
                                                             {K-n}' 2
I   Observation      KNOWNS      KNOWNS (K)   UNKNOWNS (n)     K

    5 sec or less        259         64            27         21.39
I   6-10 sec
    11-30 sec
                          92
                         153
                                     23
                                     38
                                                   21
                                                   33
                                                               o. 17
                                                               0.66

I   31-60 sec
    61 sec-5 min
                         108
                         269
                                     26
                                     66
                                                   42
                                                   99
                                                               9.85
                                                              16.50
    6-30 min             305         75            71          0.21
I   Over 30 min
    Not stated
                         135
                         444
                                     33
                                    109
                                                   37
                                                  104
                                                               0.48
                                                               0.23

I   Total                1765      434            434        49.49


I   Degrees of freedom                                             7


I           5%
             1%
                                                                14. 1
                                                                18. 5

I
I
I
I
I
I                                   65

I
                                                                          I
                                                                          I
                                                                          I
                                                                          I
                                                                          I
                                                                          I
           TABLE VI    CHI SQUARE TEST OF KNOWNS VERSUS
                                                                          I
                       UNKNOWNS ON THE BASIS OF SPEED
                                                                          I
                                   Adjusted                     x2   ,2   I
                      Number of    Number of     Number of     {K-n)
        Speed         KNOWNS      KNOWNS (K)   UNKNOWNS ( n)    K

Stationary               249             61         53          1. 05
                                                                          I
Less than 100 mph
100 to 400 mph
Over 400 mph
                         154
                         181
                         403
                                         38
                                         45
                                         99
                                                    26
                                                    58
                                                   145
                                                                3.79
                                                                3.76
                                                               21. 37
                                                                          I
Meteor-like
Not stated
                          83
                         695
                                         20
                                        171
                                                    16
                                                   136
                                                                0.80
                                                                7. 16
                                                                          I
Total                   1765            434        434         37. 93     I
Degrees of freedom                                                   5    I
          5%
          1%
                                                                11. 1
                                                                15. 1     I
                                                                          I
                                                                          I
                                                                          I
                                                                          I
                                                                          I
                                   66
                                                                          I
                                                                          I
 I
 I
 I
 I
 I
 I
 I           TABLE VII   CHI SQUARE TEST OF KNOWNS VERSUS UNKNOWNS
                         ON THE BASIS OF LIGHT BRIGHTNESS

 I                                       Adjusted                     x2
                            Number of    Number of     Number of    (K-n)' 2
 I    Light Brightness      KNOWNS      KNOWNS (K)   UNKNOWNS (n)     K


 I   Sunlight on mirror
     Sunlight on aluminum
     Sunlight on plaster,
                                47
                               151
                                76
                                              11
                                              37
                                              19
                                                          14
                                                          28
                                                          16
                                                                     0.82
                                                                     2. 19
                                                                     0.47
I     stone, or soil
     Brighter than moon        273            67          61         0.55
     Like moon or duller        68            17          22         1. 47
I     than moon
     Not stated               1150           283         293         0.35
I    Total                    1765           434         434         5.85

I    Degrees of freedom                                                    5

I              5%
               1%
                                                                     11. 1
                                                                     15. 1
I
I
I
I
I
I                                       67

I
                                                                                I
      In five of the six cases, the probability is less than 1 per cent that   I
the distributions are the same. In the sixth case, Light Brightness, the
classifications are too nebulous to be of real value. However, these tests
do not necessarily mean that the UNKNOWNS are primarily "flying saucers"
                                                                               I
and not aircraft, balloons, or other known objects or natural phenomena.
The UNKNOWNS might still be unidentified KNOWNS if either of the follow­
ing cases occurred:
                                                                               I
     ( l}   The characteristics which were observed for the UNKNOWNS
                                                                               I
            were different from those observed for the KNOWNS because
            of the psychological make-up of the observer or because of
            atmospheric distortion. This assumes the distribution of
                                                                               I
            objects in KNOWNS and UNKNOWNS is the same.
                                                                               I
     (2)    The UNKNOWNS may be known objects in different propor­
            tions than the group identified as KNOWNS. (That is, a
            greater percentage of the UNKNOWNS could be aircraft
                                                                               I
            than the percentage of aircraft in the identified KNOWNS.}

      The second case is the more probable one. In this connection, it is
                                                                               I
interesting to note the factors which contributed to a large chi square
result in the tests made above:                                                I
     (1)    Color                                                              I
            The major contribution to chi square in color is from the
            color green. There is a large excess of green sightings
            among the KNOWNS over the UNKNOWNS. Of the 130
                                                                               I
            known objects in this classification, 98 are astronomical,
            and are due mostly to the green fireballs reported from
                                                                               I
            the Southwest U. S.

     (2)    Number
                                                                               I
            The large chi square is due to a greater proportion of
            UNKNOWNS in the multiple object classification. Apparently
                                                                               I
            these are harder to identify.
                                                                               I
     (3} Shape

            In this case, there is a higher percentage of UNKNOWNS
                                                                               I
            in the rocket-aircraft-shape classification. These might
            be familiar objects for which unusual maneuvers were               I
            reported.

            There is a higher percentage of KNOWNS in the flame
                                                                               I
            and in the meteor- or comet-shape category, which in
            both cases appears to result mainly from excesses of
            astronomical sightings.
                                                                               I
                                      68
                                                                               I
                                                                               I
 I
 I         (4) Duration of observation

 I               Here there is an excess of KNOWNS in the less-than-
                 5-second group. Again, the majority of KNOWNS in

 I               this group are astronomical. The greater proportion
                 of UNKNOWNS in the 31- to 60-second and 61-second
                 to 5-minute groups cannot be explained.
 I         (5) Speed

 I               The major contribution to chi square for this char­
                 acteristic is due to a large excess of UNKNOWNS in

 I               the over 400-mph class. It can be assumed that some
                 of the excessive speeds are inaccuracies in estimates
                 by observers. However, some radar sightings, which
 I               are practically impossible to identify, show objects
                 with speeds of 1,000 to 2,000 mph and over, and these

 I         (6)
                 reports account for a number of these UNKNOWNS.

                 Light brightness

I                Since this chi square was not significant, it is not
                 necessary to discuss it here.
I          An examination of these discrepancies thus brings up a very interest­

I    ing point. In every case for which there is a significant excess of KNOWNS
     over UNKNOWNS, the excess can be attributed to an excess of identifiable
     astronomical phenomena. This would seem to lead to the conclusion that
I    astronomical phenomena are easy to identify and there are very few left in
     the UNKNOWNS. Accordingly, the astronomical object sightings were
     deleted from the KNOWN object sightings and the Chi Square Test was again
I    applied. The results are shown in Tables VIII through XIII, where in this
     case the KNOWNS do not contain astronomical sightings.

I         It will be noted that some groups were combined when the adjusted
     number of KNOWNS was ten or less, except for the case for which the
I    number of objects per sighting was the characteristic studied. These were
     borderline cases, and no good combination of groups existed.

I           It is apparent that the deletion of astronomical sightings gives a better
     fit, although the decision is not clear cut, since for two cases (light bright­

I    ness and speed}, the chi square increased. However, it can again be pointed
     out that the reporting of these two characteristics is highly subjective and is
     open to question. The estimation of speed is especially open to question
I    because of the impossibility of accurately determining it visually.


I
I                                           69

I
                                                                         I
                                                                         I
                                                                         I
                                                                         I
                                                                         I
                                                                         I
         TABLE VIII    CHI SQUARE TEST OF REVISED KNOWNS VERSUS
                       UNKNOWNS ON THE BASIS OF COLOR                    I
                 Number of
                                 Adjusted
                                 Number of     Number of
                                                                x2
                                                              (K-n}' 2
                                                                         I
   Color         KNOWNS         KNOWNS {K}    UNKNOWNS ( n)     K
                                                                         I
• White                281          95            112          3.04
  Metallic
  Not stated
                       298
                       189
                                   101
                                    64
                                                   76
                                                   62
                                                               6. 19
                                                               0.06
                                                                         I
  Orange
  Red
                       117
                        92
                                    39
                                    31
                                                   49
                                                   33
                                                               2.56
                                                               0. 13     I
  Yellow                90          30             31          0.03
 Green
  Blue
                        32
                        29
                                    11
                                    10
                                                   14
                                                   26}
                                                               0.82
                                                               0.57
                                                                         I
  Other                158          53             31

 Total                1286         434            434         13.40
                                                                         I
Degrees of freedom
                                                                         I
                                                                   7

            5%                                                 14. 1
                                                                         I
            1%                                                 18. 5
                                                                         I
                                                                         I
                                                                         I
                                                                         I
                                                                         I
                                    70                                   I
                                                                         I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
            TABLE IX    CHI SQUARE TEST OF REVISED KNOWNS VERSUS
I                       UNKNOWNS ON THE BASIS OF NUMBER


I   Number of
    Objects Per        Number of
                                    Adjusted
                                    Number of     Number of
                                                                 x2
                                                               (K-n)' 2
     Sighting          KNOWNS      KNOWNS (K)   UNKNOWNS (n)     K
I        1               913          308           297         0.39

I        2
        3-10
                         142
                         168
                                       48
                                       57
                                                     37
                                                     70
                                                                2.52
                                                                2.96
    llormore              34           11            25        15.36
I   Not stated            29           10             5         2.50


I   Total               1286         434            434        23.73



I   Degrees of freedom                                                4

              5%                                                    9.5
I             1%                                                   13.3


I
I
I
I
I
I                                      71

I
                                                                             I
                                                                             I
                                                                             I
                                                                             I
                                                                             I
                                                                             I,
        TABLE X   CHI SQUARE TEST OF REVISED KNOWNS VERSUS                   I
                  UNKNOWNS ON THE BASIS OF SHAPE


                                                                    x2
                                                                             I
                                     Adjusted

        Shape
                        Number of
                        KNOWNS
                                     Number of
                                    KNOWNS (K)
                                                   Number of
                                                 UNKNOWNS. ( n)
                                                                  (K-n)' 2
                                                                    K
                                                                             I
Elliptical
Rocket or aircraft
                           632
                            72
                                         213
                                          24
                                                      195
                                                       33
                                                                   1. 52
                                                                   3.37
                                                                             I
Meteor or comet
Flame
                             9
                            47
                                           3
                                          16           1~}
                                                                   1.32      I
Teardrop, lenticular,       79            27           22          0.93
 or conical
Other                      151            51           54          1. 76
                                                                             I
Not stated

Total
                           296

                          1286
                                         100

                                         434
                                                      116

                                                      434
                                                                   2.56

                                                                  11.46
                                                                             I
                                                                             I
Degrees of freedom                                                       5

          5%                                                       11. 1
                                                                             I
          1%                                                       15. 1
                                                                             I
                                                                             I
                                                                             I
                                                                             I
                                                                             I
                                    72
                                                                             I!
                                                                             I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I   TABLE XI      CHI SQUARE TEST OF REVISED KNOWNS VERSUS UNKNOWNS
                  ON THE BASIS OF DURATION OF OBSERVATION
I                                 Adjusted                      x2,

I   Duration of
    Observation
                     Number of
                     KNOWNS
                                  Number of
                                 KNOWNS (K)
                                                Number of
                                              UNKNOWNS ( n)
                                                              (K-n} 2
                                                                K

I   5 sec or less
    6-10 sec
                           92
                           47
                                     31
                                     16
                                                   27
                                                   21
                                                               0.52
                                                               1. 56

I   11-30 sec
    31-60 sec
                          118
                           92
                                     40
                                     31
                                                   33
                                                   42
                                                               1. 23
                                                               3.90
    61 sec-5 min          252        85            99          2. 31
I   6 min-30 min
    Over 30 min
                          259
                           91
                                     87
                                     31
                                                   71
                                                   37
                                                               2.94
                                                               1. 16

I   Not stated

    Total
                          335

                         1286
                                    113

                                    434
                                                  104

                                                  434
                                                               0.72

                                                              14.34

I
    Degrees of freedom                                             7
I           5%                                                 14. 1
            1%
I                                                              18.5



I
I
I
I
I                                   73

I
                                                                          I
                                                                          I
                                                                          I
                                                                          I
                                                                          I
                                                                          I
                                                                          I
        TABLE XII   CHI SQUARE TEST OF REVISED KNOWNS VERSUS
                    UNKNOWNS ON THE BASIS OF SPEED                        I
                      Nu1nber of
                                    Adjusted
                                    Number of     Number of
                                                                 x2
                                                               (K-n} 2'   I
                      KNOWNS                    UNKNOWNS (n)     K
        Speed

Stationary               196
                                   KNOWNS (K)

                                          66         53         2.56
                                                                          I
Less than 100 mph
100 to 400 mph
                         128
                         156
                                          43
                                          53
                                                     26
                                                     58
                                                                6.72
                                                                0.47      I
Over 400 mph             291              98
Meteor-like
Not stated
                          24
                         491
                                           8
                                         166
                                                    145}
                                                     16
                                                    136
                                                               28.54
                                                                5.42
                                                                          I
Total                   1286             434        434        43.71      I
Degrees of freedom                                                 4      I
          5%
          1%
                                                                 9.5
                                                                13. 3
                                                                          I
                                                                          I
                                                                          I
                                                                          I
                                                                          I
                                                                          I
                                    74                                    I
                                                                          I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I           TABLE XIII   CHI SQUARE TEST OF REVISED KNOWNS VERSUS
                         UNKNOWNS ON THE BASIS OF LIGHT BRIGHTNESS
I                                        Adjusted                      x2,
I     Light Brightness
                            Number of
                            KNOWNS
                                         Number of
                                        KNOWNS (K)
                                                       Number of
                                                     UNKNOWNS ( n)
                                                                     (K-n) 2
                                                                       K

I   Sunlight on mirror
    Sunlight on aluminum
                               24
                              136
                                               8
                                              46
                                                          14}
                                                          28
                                                                      2.67

I   Sunlight on plaster,
     stone, or soil
                               63             21          16          1. 19

    Brighter than moon        143             48          61          3.52
I   Like moon or duller
     than moon
                               42             15          22          3. 27


I   Not stated
    Total
                              878
                             1286
                                             296
                                             434
                                                         293
                                                         434
                                                                     0.03
                                                                     10.68

I   Degrees of freedom                                                   4

I              5%                                                      9.5
               1%                                                     13. 3
I
I
I
I
I
I                                       75

I
                                                                                I
      Another interesting aspect of these new tests is that there are only      I
two large discrepancies in all of the groups. These are for the 11 or more
groups in the classification by number of objects per sighting and for the
over-400-mph and meteor-like group for the classification by speed. The
                                                                                I
first was relatively unchanged by deletion of the astronomical sightings
principally because of the concentration of sightings in the single-object
category. The second was slightly increased by the removal of the astro­
                                                                                I
nomical sightings from the meteor-like classification. However, the main
discrepancy, that of the excess of UNKNOWNS in the over-400-mph class,          I
was little changed.

      The results of these tests are inconclusive since they neither confirm
                                                                                I
nor deny that the UNKNOWNS are primarily unidentified KNOWNS, although
they do indicate that relatively few of the UNKNOWNS are actually astro­
nomical phenomena.
                                                                                I
      It was decided that this process would not be carried to its logical
                                                                                I
conclusion {that is, the determination of a linear combination of KNOWNS
that would give a negligible chi square when compared with the UNKNOWNS),
since it was felt that the inaccuracies in the reports would give a distorted
                                                                                I
and meaningless result.
                                                                                I
                        The "Flying Saucer" Model                               I
       The importance of the problem dictated a second approach, should the
statistical results prove inconclusive. It was decided that an attempt
                                                                                I
would be made to describe the physical appearance, flight characteristics,
and other attributes {that is, construct a model) of a class or classes of      I
"flying saucers".

      Preparatory to this attempt, a re-evaluation of the UNKNOWNS was
                                                                                I
necessary. This re-evaluation was accomplished by a panel composed only
of persons previously associated with the work. Using all the UNKNOWNS
reports available at ATIC, the panel made a careful study of the reports for
                                                                                I
the UNKNOWN SIGHTINGS in angle-of-sun-elevation Groups 1, 2, 3, 6, and
7 - those .groups for which the sun was either above the horizon or less than
                                                                                I
10° in elevation below the horizon.

       This study had two purposes. The first was to determine, with
                                                                                I
additional information such as the angle of elevation of the sun, how many
of the UNKNOWNS might be ascribed to known phenomena. The second was            I
to obtain those UNKNOWNS which were described in sufficient detail that
they might be used to construct a model or models of "flying saucers".          I
      It was decided to put any of the UNKNOWNS which might be known
phenomena into a "possible KNOWN" category to denote the slightly lower
confidence level which could be ascribed to these new evaluations. The
                                                                                I
                                    76
                                                                                I
                                                                                I
I
 I   UNKNOWNS with sufficiently detailed description would be called II good
     UNKNOWNS", while the remainder would simply be called UNKNOWNS.
 I   One hundred sixty-four folders of a total of 186 OBJECT SIGHTINGS in
     Groups 1, 2, 3, 6, and 7 were examined. There were 18 possible aircraft,

 I   20 possible balloons, 7 good UNKNOWNS, 100 UNKNOWNS, and 19 others
     which were identified as being possible KNOWNS of various types. It is
     interesting to note that two of these were established as mock suns on the
 I   basis of the angle of sun elevation and the sun bearing angle, together with
     the direction of the object from the observer. In addition, the UNKNOWNS
     in angle-of-sun-elevation Groups 4 and 5 (nighttime sightings) were scanned
 I   with no attempt at identification, but to find any possible "good UNKNOWNS".
     There were five sightings that could be put into this category.

I           Of the UNKNOWNS, there were approximately 20 sightings that were
     observed in such a way that they should have been recognized easily if they
I    had been familiar objects, that is, there was little possibility that their
     shapes, as seen, could have been distorted sufficiently by one cause or

I    another to render them unrecognizable. There were a very few that would
     have been identified as guided missiles or rockets, but that were not so
     identified because of the geographical location in which they were seen.

I          All of the remaining UNKNOWNS were classified as such solely be­
     cause they were reported to have performed maneuvers that could not be
I    ascribed to any known objects. In these cases, the shape might have been
     unrecognizable also, but it was felt that this was because of distortion and

I    distance, or because of darkness.

            This is a very important point. To put it differently, if these
I    UNKNOWNS, which represent all but about 40 of the UNKNOWN SIGHTINGS,
     were reported to have performed maneuvers which could be ascribed to

I    known phenomena, they would p r o ~ have been identified as KNOWNS.
     With the exception of some radar sightings, all of these maneuvers were
     observed visually. The possibilities for inaccuracies are great because

I    of the inability of an observer to estimate visually size, distance, and
     speed.


I           Reports of sightings by radar usually were of high-speed objects,
     some at extremely high altitudes. Some were identified as UNKNOWNS

I    because there was no object to be seen visually at the point indicated by the
     radar set. It cannot be said with any assurance what these radar sightings
     mean, but the most logical explanation is that they are ground targets re­

I    flected by an atmospheric temperature inversion layer. The validity of this
     statement cannot be established. It is felt that radar sightings in this study
     are of no significance whatsoever unless a visual sighting of the object also
I    1s made.


I          Taken in conjunction with the Chi Square Tests discussed earlier,
     the results of the re-evaluation of reports identified as UNKNOWN
     SIGHTINGS would seem to indicate that the majority of them could easily
I                                         77

I
                                                                                  I
have been familiar objects. However, the resolution of this question with
                                                                                  I
any degree of certainty appears to be impossible.

      Thus, out of the 434 OBJECT SIGHTINGS that were identified as.
                                                                                  I
UNKNOWNS by the data reduction process, there were only 12 that were
described with sufficient detail that they could be used in an attempt to
derive a model of a "flying saucer". The following is a summary of the 12
                                                                                  I
good UNKNOWN SIGHTINGS:
                                                                                  I
Case I {Serial 0573. 00)                                                          I
      Two men employed by a rug-cleaning firm were driving across a
bridge at 0955 hours on July 29, 1948, when they saw an object glide across       I
the road a few hundred feet in front of them. It was shiny and metallic in
construction, about 6 to 8 feet long and 2 feet wide. It was in a flat glide
path at an altitude of about 30 feet and in a moderate turn to the left. It was
                                                                                  I
seen for only a few seconds and apparently went down in a wooded area,
although no trace of it was found.                                                I
                                                                                  I
                                     6' to 8'                                     I
                                                                                  I
                                                                                  I
                                                                   1-1/2' X 2'
                                                                                  I
                                                                                  I
                                                                                  I
           These are round cups which protrude
                                                                                  I
Case II {Serial 4508. 00)
                                                                                  I
      A naval aviation student, his wife, and several others were at a
drive-in movie from 2115 to 2240 hours on April 20, 1952, during which
                                                                                  I
time they saw several groups of objects fly over. There were from two to
nine objects in a group and there were about 20 groups. The groups of             I
                                           78                                     I
                                                                                  I
I
I    objects flew in a straight line except for some changes in direction

I    accomplished in a manner like any standard aircraft turn.

           The objects were shaped like conventional aircraft. The unaccount­
I    able feature of the objects was that each had a red glow surrounding it and
     was glowing itself, although it was a cloudless night.

I
I
I
I
I
,,




I
I
I
I    Case III (Serial 2013. 00, 2014. 00, and 2014. 01)

             Two tower operators sighted a light over a city airport at 2020 hours
I    on January 20, 1951. Since a commercial plane was taking off at this
     time, the pilots were asked to investigate this light. They observed it at

I    2026 hours. According to them, it flew abreast of them at a greater
     radius as they made their climbing turn, during which time it blinked some
     lights which looked like running lights. While the observing plane was still

I    in it.s climbing turn, the object made a turn toward the plane and flew across
     its nose. As the two men turned their heads to watch it, it instantly
     appeared on their other side flying in the same direction as they were
I    flying, and then in 2 or 3 seconds it slipped under them, and they did not
     see it again. Total time of the observation was not stated. In appearance,

I    it was like an airplane with a cigar-shaped body and straight wings, some­
     what larger than a B-29. No engine nacelles were observed on the wings.


I
I                                          79

I                                                    \_
                                                                              I
                                                                              I
                                                                              I
                                                                              I
                                                                              I
                                                                              I
                                                                              I
                                                                              I
                                                                              I
Case N (Serial 4599. 00)                                                      I
      A part-time farmer and a hired hand were curing tobacco at midnight
on July 19, 1952, when they looked up and saw two cigar-shaped objects.
One hovered while the other moved to the east and came back, at which
                                                                              I
tin1e both ascended until out of sight. Duration of observation was 3 to 4
minutes. Both had an exhaust at one end, and neither had projections of any
                                                                              I
kind. It was stated that they appeared to be transparent and illuminated
from the inside.                                                              I
                                                                              I
                                                                              I
                                        Lighted
                                                                              I
                                                                              I
  Exhaust                                                                     I
                                                                              I
                                                                              I
                                   80
                                                                              I
                                                                              I
I
I   Case V (Serial 0565. 00 to 0565. 03)
I          A pilot and copilot were flying a DC-3 at 0340 hours on July 24, 1948,
    when they saw an object coming toward them. It passed to the right and
I   slightly above them, at which time it went into a steep climb and was lost
    from sight in some clouds. Duration of the observation was about 10

I   seconds. One passenger was able to catch a flash of light as the object
    passed. The object seemed powered by rocket or jet motors shooting a
    trail of fire some 50 feet to the rear of the object. The object had no wings •
I   or other protrusion and had two rows of lighted windows.


I
I                                                                 Cockpit

I                                                                  windshield?




I
I
I
                                       Pilot

I
I
I
I
I
I                                                                  Black


I                                    Copilot



I
I                                          81

I                          I
                                                                                  I
                                                                                  I
Case VI (Serial 4822. 00)

        An instrument technician, while driving from a large city toward an
                                                                                  I
 Air Force base on December 22, 1952, saw an object from his car at 1930
 hours. He stopped his car to watch it. It suddenly moved up toward the
 zenith in spurts from right to left at an angle of about 45°. It then moved
                                                                                  I
 off in level flight at a high rate of speed, during which maneuver it appeared
 white most of the time, but apparently rolled three times showing a red
                                                                                  I
·side. About halfway through its roll it showed no light at all. It finally
 assumed a position to the south of the planet Jupiter at a high altitude, at
 which position it darted back and forth, left and right alternately. Total
                                                                                  I
 time of the observation was 15 minutes. Apparently, the observer just
 stopped watching the object.                                                     I
                                                                                  I
                                                                                  I
                                                                                  I
                                                                                  I
                                                                                  I
                                                                                  I
                                                                                  I
                                                                                  I
                                                                                  I
                                      Deep red
                                                                                  I
                                                                                  I
                                                                                  I
                                                                                  I
                                     82
                                                                                  I
                                                                                  I
I
 I   Case VII (Serial 2728. 00}

 I         A Flight Sergeant saw an object over an Air Force base in Korea at
     0842 hours on June 6, 1952. The object flew in a series of spinning and

 I   tumbling actions. It was on an erratic course, first flying level, then
     stopping momentarily, shooting straight up, flying level and again tumbling,
     then changing course and disappearing into the sun. It reappeared and was
 I   seen flying back and forth across the sun. At one time an F-86 passed
     between the observer and the _object. He pointed it out to another man who

 I   saw it as it maneuvered near the sun.



I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I               Black lines evenly spaced                 Proportion 7 to 1



I                                                        (Dimensions are as
                                                          shown in observer's
                                                          original drawing)

I
I
I
I                                           83


I
                                                                                I
Case VIII (Serial 0576. 00)
                                                                                I
      An electrician was standing by the bathroom window of his home,           I
facing west, at 0825 hours on July 31, 1948, when he first sighted an object.
He ran to his kitchen where he pointed out the object to his wife. Total
time in sight was approximately 10 seconds, during which the object flew
                                                                                I
on a straight and level course from horizon to horizon, west to east.
                                                                                I
                                                                                I
                                                                                I
                                                                                I
                                                                                I
                                                                                I
                                                                                I
      f                                                                         I
   6' to 8'
                                                                                I
                                                                                I
                                                                                I
                                       20'                                      I
                                                                                I
                                (Ratio approx. 3:1)                             I
                                                                                I
                                                                                I
                                      84
                                                                                I
                                                                                I
I
I   Case IX (Serial 0066. 00)


I         A farmer and his two sons, aged 8 and 10, were at his fishing camp
    on August 13, 1947. At about 1300 hours, he went to look for the boys,

I   having sent them to the river for some tape from his boat. He noticed an
    object some 300 feet away, 75 feet above the ground. He saw it against
    the background of the canyon wall which was 400 feet high at this point. It

I   was hedge hopping, following the contour of the ground, was sky blue,
    about 20 feet in diameter and 10 feet thick, and had pods on the side from
    which flames were shooting out. It made a swishing sound. The observer
I   stated that the trees were highly agitated by the craft as it passed over.
    His two sons also observed the object. No one saw the object for more

I   than a few seconds.



I
I
I
I
I
I                                  . Side view



I
I
I
I
I
I
I                                   End view




I                                        85


I
                                                                                    I
                                                                                    I
Case X (Serial 1119. 00}

       An employee in the supersonic laboratory of an aeronautical lab­
                                                                                    I
oratory and some other employees of this lab, were by a river, 2- 1/2
miles from its mouth, yvhen they saw an object. The time was about 1700
hours on May 24, 1949. The object was reflecting sunlight when observed
                                                                                    I
by naked eye. However, he then looked at it with 8-power binoculars, at
which time there was no glare. (Did glasses have filter?} It was of                 I
metallic construction and was seen with good enough resolution to show
that the skin was dirty. It moved off in horizontal flight at a gradually in­
creasing rate of speed, until it seemed to approach the speed of a jet
                                                                                    I
before it disappeared. No propulsion was apparent. Time of observation
was 2- 1/2 to 3 minutes.                                                            I
                                                                                    I
                                                                                    I
                                                                                    I
                                                                                    I
                                                                                    I
                                                                                    I
                             Something equivalent
                                                                                    I
                              to a patch

                                                                                    I
                                                                       Direction
                                                                        of motion   I
                                                                   /                I
                                                                                    I
                                 Surface appeared dirty
    in rear                       and spotty in color
                                                                                    I
                                                                                    I
                                       86
                                                                                    I
                                                                                    I
I
I   Case XI (Serial 1550. 00}

I          On March 20, 1950, a Reserve Air Force Captain and an airlines
    Captain were flying a commercial airlines flight. At 21:26, the airline

I   Captain directed the attention of the Reserve Air Force Captain to an object
    which apparently was flying at high speed, approaching the airliner from
    the south on a north heading. The Reserve Air Force Captain focused his

I   attention on the object. Both crew members watched it as it passed in front
    of them and went out of sight to the right. The observation, which lasted
    about 25 to 35 seconds, occurred about 15 miles north of a medium-sized
I   city. When the object passed in front of the airliner, it was not more than
    1/2 mile distant and at an altitude of about 1000 feet higher than the airliner.

I          The object appeared to be circular, with a diameter of approximately
    100 feet and with a vertical height considerably less than the diameter,
I   giving the object a disc-like shape. In the top center was a light which was
    blinking at an estimated 3 flashes per second. This light was so brilliant

I   that it would have been impossible to look at it continuously had it not been
    blinking. This light could be seen only when the object was approaching
    and after it had passed the airliner. When the object passed in front of the

I   observers, the bottom side was visible. The bottom side appeared to have
    9 to 12 symmetrical oval or circular portholes located in a circle approxi­
    mately 3/4 of the distance from the center to the outer edge. Through these
I   portholes came a soft purple light about the shade of aircraft fluorescent
    lights. The object was traveling in a straight line without spinning. Con­

I   sidering the visibility, the length of time the object was in sight, and the
    distance from the object, the Reserve Air Force Captain estimates the
    speed to be in excess of 1000 mph.
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I                                         87


I
                      I
                      I
                      I
                      I
     Flashing light   I
                      I
                      I
                      I
                      I
                      I
                      I
                      I
                      I
                      I
                      I
                      I
                      I
                      I
                      I
                      I
                      I
88
                      I
I
I    Case XII (Serial 3601. 00)

I           At 0535 on the morning of August 25, 1952, a musician for a radio
     station was driving to work from his home when he noticed an object

 I   hovering about 10 feet above a field near the road along which he was
     driving. As he came abreast of the object, he stopped his car and got out
     to watch. Having an artificial leg, he could not leave the road, since the
 I   surrounding terrain was rough. However, he was within about 100 yards
     of it at the point he was standing on the road. The object was not absolutely

I    still, but seemed to rock slightly as it hovered. When he turned off the
     motor of his car, he could hear a deep throbbing sound coming from the
     object. As he got out of the car, the object began a vertical ascent with a

I    sound similar to "a large covey of quail starting to fly at one time". The
     object ascended vertically through broken clouds until out of sight. His
     view was not obscured by clouds. The observer states that the vegetation
I    was blown about by the object when it was near the ground.


I          Description of the object is as follows:

           It was about 75 feet long, 45 feet wide, and 15 feet thick, shaped like
I    two oval meat platters placed together. It was a dull aluminum color, and
     had a smooth surface. A medium-blue continuous light shone through the

I    one window in the front section. The head and shoulders of one man, sitting
     motionless, facing the forward edge of the object, were visible. In the
     midsection of the object were several windows extending from the top to the

I    rear edge of the object; the midsection of the ship had a blue light which
     gradually changed to different shades. There was a large amount of activity
     and movement in the midsection that could not be identified as either human
I    or mechanical, although it did not have a regular pattern of movement.
     There were no windows, doors or portholes, vents, seams, etc., visible

I    to the observer in the rear section of the object or under the object (viewed
     at time of ascent). Another identifiable feature was a series of propellers
     6 to 12 inches in diameter spaced closely together along the outer edge of

I    the object. These propellers were mounted on a bracket so that they
     revolved in a horizontal plane along the edge of the object. The propellers
     were revolving at a high rate of speed.
I          Investigation of the area soon afterward showed some evidence of

I    vegetation being blown around. An examination of grass and soil samples
     taken indicated nothing unusual. Reliability of the observer was considered
     good.
I
I
I
I                                         89

I
                                                I
                                                I
                                                I
                                                I
                                                I
                                                I
                                                I
                                                I
                                   20' to 25'
                                    height
                                                I
                                                I
                                                I
                                                I
                                                I
.....,._____ Approximately
              75' long
                           ----~                I
                                                I
                                                I
                                                I
                                                I
                                                I
                                                I
                                                I
                90
                                                I
I
I         These 12 sightings can be classed into four categories on the basis of

I   their shapes, as follows:

          ( l} Propeller shape - Case I

I         (2) Aircraft shape - Cases II and III

I         (3) Cigar shape - Cases IV and V


I         (4) Elliptical or disc shape - Cases VI to XII

          The criterion for choosing the above sightings was that their descrip­
I   tions were given in enough detail to permit diagrams of the objects to be
    drawn. It might be noted here that in all but one of these cases (Case XI)
    the observer had already drawn a diagram of what he had seen.
I         The objective of this section of the study was the conceiving of a

I   model, or models. The requirement that the description be detailed is an
    important one, and was the easiest to determine in the re-evaluation pro­
    gram. However, a good model ought to satisfy the following conditions as
I   well:


I         ( 1)   The general shape of the object and the maneuvers it
                 performed should fit the reports of many of the UNKNOWNS
                 and thus explain them.

I         (2)    The observer and the report should be reliable.

I         (3}    The report should contain elements which should have
                 been observed with accuracy, and which eliminate the

I                possibility that the sighting could be ascribed to a
                 familiar object or to a known natural phenomenon.


I         ( 4}   The model should be derived from two or more good
                 UNKNOWNS between which there is no essential conflict.

I         It can be shown that it is not possible to deduce a model from the 12
    cases that will satisfy all of these conditions. The following case-by-case

I   discussion of the 12 good UNKNOWNS will illustrate this point:

          ( 1)   Case I does not satisfy Conditions 1 and 4. The reported
I                shape of this object is not duplicated in any of the other
                 UNKNOWNS.

I        • (2)   Case II does not satisfy Conditions 1 and 3. There are
                 very few UNKNOWNS in the aircraft shape classification.

I                In addition, the unusual characteristic of this sighting
                 (i.e., the red glow) could have been reflection of the
                 lights of Flint from the objects if they were either birds
I                or aircraft.
                                             91

I
                                                                                I
      (3) Case III does not satisfy Condition 1. It also does not               I
          satisfy Condition 4 when Case II is eliminated as a
          good UNKNOWN.                                                         I
      (4)   Case IV does not satisfy Conditions 1 or 2. There are
            few cigar-shaped or rocket-shaped objects reported in
            the literature. In addition, this observer is not con­
                                                                               I
            sidered to be well-qualified technically.
                                                                               I
      (5) Case V does not satisfy Condition 1. It also does not
          satisfy Condition 4 when Case IV is eliminated as a
          good UNKNOWN.
                                                                               I
       It might be argued here that many of the UNKNOWNS might actually        I
have shapes similar to these good UNKNOWNS. It will be noted, however,
that each of these five cases does not satisfy one of the other three condi­
tions.
                                                                               I
      (6)   Case VI does not satisfy Condition 2. In the description
            of the object, it was stated that at certain times there
                                                                               I
            was no light seen from the object. Apparently, the
            "band of no light", as diagrammed by the observer, was             I
            an attempt to explain this. However, if the object were
            constructed as shown in the diagram, light should have
            been seen at all times. Because of this conflict the
                                                                               I
            drawing is not considered reliable, and without the draw­
            ing, there is not enough detail in the description to make
            it useful for this study.
                                                                               I
     (7) Case VII violates Conditions 1 and 4. Although the shape
                                                                               I
         is disc-like, the maneuvers performed by the object are
         unique both among the UNKNOWNS and among the good
         UNKNOWNS.
                                                                               I
      Cases VIII to XII satisfy Conditions 1 through 3, but they do not        I
satisfy Condition 4. The features which make them different from each
other are as follows:
                                                                               I
     (8) Case VIII. The object is smooth, with no protrusions
         or other details.                                                     I
     ( 9)   Case IX. The object had rocket or jet pods on each
            side that were shooting out flames.                                I
    (10)    Case X.   The,object had a fin or rudder.                          I
    ( 11)   Case XI. The object had a series of portholes, or
            windows, on its under side.                                        I
                                       92                                      I
                                                                               I
I
I         (12) Case XII. The object had windows in its top and front
               and its top midsection. It also had a set of propellers
I              around its waist.


I         It is not possible, therefore, to derive a verified model of a "flying
    saucer" from the data that have been gathered to date. This point is im­
    portant enough to emphasize. Out of about 4,000 people who said they saw
I   a "flying saucer", sufficiently detailed descriptions were given in only 12
    cases. Having culled the cream of the crop, it is still impossible to develop

I   a picture of what a "flying saucer" is.

           In addition to this study of the good UNKNOWNS, an attempt was made
I   to find groups of UNKNOWNS for which the observed characteristics were
    the same. No such groups were found.

I         On the basis of this evidence, therefore, there is a low probability
    that any of the UNKNOWNS represent observations of a class of "flying

I   saucers". It may be that some reports represent observations of not one
    but several classes of objects that might have been "flying saucers";
    however, the lack of evidence to confirm even one class would seem to make
I   this possibility remote. It is pointed out that some of the cases of KNOWNS,
    before identification, appeared fully as bizarre as any of the 12 cases of

I   good UNKNOWNS, and, in fact, would have been placed in the class of good
    UNKNOWNS had it not been possible to establish their identity.


I          This is, of course, contrary to the bulk of the publicity that has been
    given to this problem. The reason for the nature of this publicity was
    clearly brought out during the re-evaluation study. It is a definite fact that
I   upon reading a few reports, the reader becomes convinced that "flying
    saucers" are real and are some form of sinister contrivance. This reaction

I   is independent of the training of the reader or of his attitude toward the
    problem prior to the initial contact. It is unfortunate that practically all of
    the articles, books, and news stories dealing with the phenomenon of the
I   "flying saucer" were written by men who were in this category, that is,
    men who had read only a few selected reports. This is accentuated by the
    fact that, as a rule, only the more lurid-sounding reports are cited in these
I   publications. Were it not for this common psychological tendency to be
    captivated by the mysterious, it is possible that no problem of this nature

I   would exist.

           The reaction, mentioned above, that after reading a few reports, the
I   reader is convinced that "flying saucers" are real and are some form of
    sinister contrivance, is very misleading. As more and more of the reports

I   are read, the feeling that "saucers" are real fades, and is replaced by a
    feeling of skepticism regarding their existence .. The reader eventually
    reaches a point of saturation, after which the reports contain no new infor­
I   mation at all and are no longer of any interest. This feeling of surfeit was
    universal among the personnel who worked on this project, and continually
    necessitated a conscious effort on their part to remain objective.
I                                        93

I
                                                                                  I
                               CONCLUSIONS                                       I
      It can never be absolutely proven that "flying saucers" do not exist.
                                                                                 I
This would be true if the data obtained were to include complete scientific
measurements of the attributes of each sighting, as well as complete and
detailed descriptions of the objects sighted. It might be possible to demon­
                                                                                 I
strate the existence of "flying saucers" with data of this type, IF they were
to exist.
                                                                                 I
      Although the reports considered in this study usually did not contain
scientific measurements of the attributes of each sighting, it was possible
                                                                                 I
to establish certain valid conclusions by the application of statistical
methods in the treatment of the data. Scientifically evaluated and arranged,     I
the data as a whole did not show any marked patterns or trends. The in­
accuracies inherent in this type of data, in addition to the incompleteness of
a large proportion of the reports, may have obscured any patterns Qr trends
                                                                                 I
that otherwise would have been evident. This absence of indicative relation­
ships necessitated an exhaustive study of selected facets of the data in order
to draw any valid conclusions.
                                                                                 I
      A critical examination of the distributions of the important char­         I
acteristics of sightings, plus an intensive study of the sightings evaluated
as UNKNOWN, led to the conclusion that a combination of factors, prin­
cipally the reported maneuvers of the objects and the unavailability of
                                                                                 I
supplemental data such as aircraft flight plans or balloon-launching records,
resulted in the failure to identify as KNOWNS most of the reports of objects
classified as UNKNOWNS.
                                                                                 I
      An intensive study, aimed at finding a verified example of a "flying
                                                                                 I
saucer" or at deriving a verified model or models of "flying saucers" {as
defined on Page 1), led to the conclusion that neither goal could be attained
using the pre sent data.
                                                                                 I
      It is emphasized that there was a complete lack of any valid evidence      I
consisting of physical matter in any case of a reported unidentified aerial
object.
                                                                                 I
      Thus, the probability that any of the UNKNOWNS considered in this
study are "flying saucers" is concluded to be extremely small, since the
most complete and reliable reports from the present data, when isolated
                                                                                 I
and studied, conclusively failed to reveal even a rough model, and since
the data as a whole failed to reveal any marked patterns or trends.              I
      Therefore, on the basis of this evaluation of the information, it is
considered to be highly improbable that any of the reports of unidentified
                                                                                 I
aerial objects examined in this study represent observations of technologi­
cal developments outside the range of present-day scientific knowledge.          I
                                     94
                                                                                 I
                                                                                 I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
                  APPENDIX A
I
I   TABULATIONS OF FREQUENCY AND PERCENTAGE
        DISTRIBUTIONS BY CHARACTERISTICS
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I                   95 and 96

I
I
I                                                         INDEX OF TABLES


I   Table Al.     Evaluation of All Sightings by Years
                                                                                           Page

                                                                                           107


I   Table AZ.

    Table A3.
                  Evaluation of Unit Sightings by Years

                  Evaluation of Object Sightings by Years
                                                                                           107

                                                                                           108


I   Table A4.

    Table AS.
                  Evaluation of All Sightings by Month of Year, All Years.

                  Evaluation of All Sightings by Month of Year, 1947
                                                                                           109

                                                                                           110



I   Table A6.

    Table A7.
                  Evaluation of All Sightings by Month of Year, 1948

                  Evaluation of All Sightings by Month of Year, 1949
                                                                                           111

                                                                                           112



I   Table A8.

    Table A9.
                  Evaluation of All Sightings by Month of Year, 1950

                  Evaluation of All Sightings by Month of Year, 1951
                                                                                           113

                                                                                           114



I   Table Al0.

    Table Al 1.
                  Evaluation of All Sightings by Month of Year, 1952

                  Evaluation of Unit Sightings by Month of Year, All Years
                                                                                           115

                                                                                           116



I   Table AlZ.

    Table Al3.
                  Evaluation of Unit Sightings by Month of Year, 1947

                  Evaluation of Unit Sightings by Month of Year, 1948
                                                                                           117

                                                                                           118



I   Table Al4.

    Table Al 5.
                  Evaluation of Unit Sightings by Month of Year, 1949

                  Evaluation of Unit Sightings by Month of Year, 1950
                                                                                           119

                                                                                           120

    Table Al 6.   Evaluation of Unit Sightings by Month of Year, 1951                      121

I   Table Al 7.   Evaluation of Unit Sightings by Month of Year, 1952                      122

    Table Al 8.   Evaluation of Object Sightings by Month of Year, All Years               123

I   Table Al 9.   Evaluation of Object Sightings by Month of Year, 1947                    124

    Table AZO.    Evaluation of Object Sightings by Month of Year, 1948                    125

I   Table AZl.

    Table AZZ.
                  Evaluation of Object Sightings by Month of Year, 1949·

                  Evaluation of Object Sightings by Month of Year, 1950
                                                                                           126

                                                                                           127


I   Table A23.

    Table A24.
                  Evaluation of Object Sightings by Month of Year, 1951

                  Evaluation of Object Sightings by Month of Year, 1952
                                                                                           128

                                                                                           129


I   Table A25.

    Table A26.
                  Evaluation of All Sightings by Sighting Reliability Groups, All Years

                  Evaluation of All Sightings by Sighting Reliability Groups, 1947
                                                                                           130

                                                                                           130


I   Table A27.

    Table A28.
                  Evaluation of All Sightings by Sighting Reliability Groups, 1948

                  Evaluation of All Sightings by Sighting Reliability Groups, 1949
                                                                                           130

                                                                                           130


I   Table A29.

    Table A30.
                  Evaluation of All Sightings by Sighting Reliability Groups, 1950

                  Evaluation of All Sightings by Sighting Reliability Groups, 1951
                                                                                           131

                                                                                           131



I   Table A31.

    Table A32.
                  Evaluation of All Sightings by Sighting Reliability Groups, 1952

                  Evaluation of Unit Sightings by Sighting Reliability Groups, All Years
                                                                                           131

                                                                                           132



I   Table A33.    Evaluation of Unit Sightings by Sighting Reliability Groups, 1947 .      132




I
I                                                           97

I
                                                                                                 I
                                                   INDEX OF TABLES
                                                      (Continued)
                                                                                                 I
Table A34.   Evaluation of Unit Sightings by Sighting Reliability Groups, 1948 .
                                                                                         Page

                                                                                          132
                                                                                                I
Table A35.

Table A36.
             Evaluation of Unit Sightings by Sighting Reliability Groups, 1949

             Evaluation of Unit Sightings by Sighting Reliability Groups, 1950
                                                                                          132

                                                                                          133
                                                                                                I
Table A37.

Table A38.
             Evaluation of Unit Sightings by Sighting Reliability Groups, 1951

             Evaluation of Unit Sightings by Sighting Reliability Groups, 1952 .
                                                                                         133

                                                                                          133
                                                                                                I
Table A39.

Table A40.
             Evaluation of Object Sightings by Sighting Reliability Groups, All Years

             Evaluation of Object Sightings by Sighting Reliability Groups, 1947
                                                                                         134

                                                                                         134
                                                                                                I
Table A41.

Table A42.
             Evaluation of Object Sightings by Sighting Reliability Groups, 1948

             Evaluation of Object Sightings by Sighting Reliability Groups, 1949
                                                                                         134

                                                                                         134
                                                                                                I
Table A43.

Table A44.
             Evaluation of Object Sightings by Sighting Reliability Groups, 1950

             Evaluation of Object Sightings by Sighting Reliability Groups, 1951
                                                                                         135

                                                                                         135
                                                                                                I
Table A45.

Table A46.
             Evaluation of Object Sightings by Sighting Reliability Groups, 1952

             Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Sighting Reliability Groups,
              Military Observers
                                                                                         135


                                                                                         136
                                                                                                I
Table A47.   Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Sighting Reliability Groups,
              Civilian Observers                                                         136    I
Table A48.


Table A49.
             Evaluation of All Sightings for 1947 by Sighting Reliability Groups,
              Military Observers

             Evaluation of All Sightings for 1947 by Sighting Reliability Groups,
                                                                                         136
                                                                                                I
                                                                                         136

                                                                                                I
              Civilian Observers

Table AS0.   Evaluation of All Sightings for 1948 by Sighting Reliability Groups,
              Military Observers                                                         137

Table A51.   Evaluation of All Sightings for 1948 by Sighting Reliability Groups,
              Civilian Observers                                                         137    I
Table A52.   Evaluation of All Sightings for 1949 by Sighting Reliability Groups,


Table A53.
              Military Observers

             Evaluation of All Sightings for 1949 by Sighting Reliability Groups,
              Civilian Observers
                                                                                         137


                                                                                         137
                                                                                                I
Table A54.   Evaluation of All Sightings for 1950 by Sighting Reliability Groups,
              Military Observers                                                         138
                                                                                                I
Table A55.


Table A56.
             Evaluation of All Sightings for 1950 by Sighting Reliability Groups,
              Civilian Observers

             Evaluation of All Sightings for 1951 by Sighting Reliability Groups,
                                                                                         138
                                                                                                I
                                                                                                I
              Military Observers                                                         138

Table A57.   Evaluation of All Sightings for 1951 by Sighting Reliability Groups,
              Civilian Observers                                                         138

Table ASS.   Evaluation of All Sightings for 1952 by Sighting Reliability Groups,
              Military Observers                                                         139    I
                                                                                                I
                                                                                                I
                                                         98                                     I
                                                                                                I
I
I
                                                         INDEX OF TABLES

I                                                           (Continued)




I   Table A59.


    Table A60.
                   Evaluation of All Sightings for 1952 by Sighting Reliability Groups,
                    Civilian Observers

                   Reported Colors of Objects Sighted by Years, All Sightings
                                                                                                     139

                                                                                                     140


I   Table A61.

    Table A62.
                   Reported Colors of Objects Sighted by Years, Unit Sightings

                   Reported Colors of Objects Sighted by Years, Object Sightings
                                                                                                     140

                                                                                                     140


I   Table A63.

    Table A64.
                   Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported .

                   Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported
                                                                                                     141

                                                                                                     142


I   Table A65.

    Table A66.
                   Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported

                   Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting,
                                                                                                     143


                    One Object                                                                       144

I   Table A67.     Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting,
                    Two Objects .                                                                    144



I   Table A68.     Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting,
                    Three to Ten Objects •                                                           145

    Table A69.     Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting,

I   Table A 70.
                    Eleven or More Objects .

                   Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting,
                    Number of Objects Not Stated .
                                                                                                     145


                                                                                                     146


I   Table A 71.    Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting,
                    One Object                                                                       147



I   Table A 72.


    Table A 73.
                   Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting,
                    Two Objects .

                   Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting,
                                                                                                     147




I   Table A 74.
                    Three to Ten Objects .

                   Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting,
                    Eleven or More Objects .
                                                                                                     148


                                                                                                     148


I   Table A 7 5.   Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting,
                    Number of Objects Not Stated .                                                   149

    Table A 76.    Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting,

I   Table A 77.
                    One Object

                   Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting,
                                                                                                     150


                    Two Objects •                                                                    150

I   Table A 78.    Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting,
                    Three to Ten Objects .                                                           151



I   Table A 79.


    Table ABO.
                   Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting,
                    Eleven or More Objects .

                   Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting,
                                                                                                     151




I   Table ABl.
                    Number of Objects Not Stated .

                   Evaluation of All Sightings by Duration of Sighting, All Years
                                                                                                     152

                                                                                                     153



I   Table A82.     Evaluation of All Sightings by Duration of Sighting, 1947                         153




I
I                                                              99
                                                                                                       I
                                                     INDEX OF TABLES
                                                        (Continued)
                                                                                                       I
Table A83.     Evaluation of All Sightings by Duration of Sighting, 1948
                                                                                               Page

                                                                                                154
                                                                                                       I
Table A84.

Table A85.
               Evaluation of All Sightings by Duration of Sighting, 1949

               Evaluation of All Sightings by Duration of Sighting, 1950
                                                                                               • 154

                                                                                                155
                                                                                                       I
Table A86.

Table A87.
               Evaluation of All Sightings by Duration of Sighting, 1951

               Evaluation of All Sightings by Duration of Sighting, 1952
                                                                                                155

                                                                                                156
                                                                                                       I
Taole ABB.

Table A89.
               Evaluation of Unit Sightings by Duration of Sighting, All Years

               Evaluation of Unit Sightings by Duration of Sighting, 1947
                                                                                                157

                                                                                                157
                                                                                                       I
Table A90.

Table A91.
               Evaluation of Unit Sightings by Duration of Sighting, 1948

               Evaluation of Unit Sightings by Duration of Sighting, 1949
                                                                                                158

                                                                                                158
                                                                                                       I
Table A92.

Table A93.
               Evaluation of Unit Sightings by Duration of Sighting, 1950

               Evaluation of Unit Sightings by Duration of Sighting, 1951
                                                                                                159

                                                                                                159
                                                                                                       I
Table A94.

Table A95.
               Evaluation of Unit Sightings by Duration of Sighting, 1952

               Evaluation of Object Sightings by Duration of Sighting, All Years.
                                                                                                160

                                                                                                161
                                                                                                       I
Table A 96.

Table A 97.
               Evaluation of Object Sightings by Duration of Sighting, 1947

               Evaluation of Object Sightings by Duration of Sighting, 1948
                                                                                               161

                                                                                               162
                                                                                                       I
Table A 98.

Table A99.
               Evaluation of Object Sightings by Duration of Sighting, 1949

               Evaluation of Object Sightings by Duration of Sighting, 1950
                                                                                               162

                                                                                               163     I
                                                                                                       I
Table Al00. Evaluation of Object Sightings by Duration of Sightings, 1951                      163

Table Al0l. Evaluation of Object Sightings by Duration of Sighting, 1952                       164

Table Al02.     Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Duration of Sighting for Months


Table Al 03.
                 of Year, Five Seconds or Less

                Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Duration of Sighting for Months
                                                                                               165
                                                                                                       I
                 of Year, Six to Ten Seconds                                                   166

Table Al 04.    Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Duration of Sighting for Months
                 of Year, Eleven to Thirty Seconds .                                           167
                                                                                                       I
Table Al 05.


Table Al06.
                Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Duration of Sighting for Months
                 of Year, Thirty One to Sixty Seconds

                Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Duration of Sighting for Months
                                                                                               168     I
Table Al07.
                 of Year, Sixty One Seconds to Five Minutes .

                Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Duration of Sighting for Months
                 of Year, Six to Thirty Minutes
                                                                                               169


                                                                                               170
                                                                                                       I
Table Al 08.   Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Duration of Sighting for Months
                of Year, Over Thirty Minutes                                                   171     I
                                                                                                       I
Table Al 09.    Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Duration of Sighting for Months
                 of Year, Duration Not Stated .                                                172




                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                       I
                                                            100
                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                       I
I
I                                                       INDEX OF TABLES


I                                                          (Continued)




I   Table AllO.


    Table A 111.
                   Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Duration of Sighting for Months
                    of Year, Five Seconds or Less

                   Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Duration of Sighting for Months
                                                                                                        173


                    of Year, Six to Ten Seconds                                                         174

I   Table All2.    Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Duration of Sighting for Months
                    of Year, Eleven to Thirty Seconds .                                                 175


I   Table A 113.   Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Duration of Sighting for Months
                    of Year, Thirty One to Sixty Seconds                                                176

    Table All4.    Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Duration of Sighting for Months

I   Table All 5.
                    of Year, Sixty One Seconds to Five Minutes •

                   Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Duration of Sighting for Months
                    of Year, Six to Thirty Minutes
                                                                                                        177


                                                                                                        178

I   Table All6.    Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Duration of Sighting for Months
                    of Year, Over Thirty Minutes                                                        179



I   Table Al 17.


    Table All 8.
                   Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Duration of Sighting for Months
                    of Year, Duration Not Stated .

                   Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Duration of Sighting for Months
                                                                                                        180




I   Table All 9.
                    of Year, Five Seconds or Less

                   Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Duration of Sighting for Months
                    of Year, Six to Ten Seconds
                                                                                                        181


                                                                                                        182


I   Table AlZ0.    Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Duration of Sighting for Months
                    of Year, Eleven to Thirty Seconds •                                                 183

    Table Al2l.    Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Duration of Sighting for Months

I   Table Al22.
                    of Year, Thirty One to Sixty Seconds

                   Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Duration of Sighting for Months
                                                                                                        184


                    of Year, Sixty One Seconds to Five Minutes .                                        185

I   Table Al 23.   Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Duration of Sighting for Months
                    of Year, Six to Thirty Minutes                                                      186



I   Table Al24.


    Table Al 25.
                   Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Duration of Sighting for Months
                    of Year, Over Thirty Minutes

                   Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Duration of Sighting for Months
                                                                                                        187




I   Table Al26.
                    of Year, Duration Not Stated •

                   Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Shape of Object, Elliptical
                                                                                                        188

                                                                                                        189



I   Table Al27.

    Table Al 28.
                   Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Shape of Object, Rocket and Aircraft

                   Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Shape of Object, Meteor or Comet
                                                                                                        189

                                                                                                        190



I
    Table Al29.    Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Shape of Object, Lenticular, Conical,
                    or Teardrop                                                                         190

    Table Al30.    Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Shape of Object, Flame                  191


I   Table Al3l.

    Table Al32.
                   Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Shape of Object, Other Shapes

                   Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Shape of Object, Shape Not Stated
                                                                                                        191

                                                                                                        192



I
I
I                                                             101

I
                                                                                                              I
                                                    INDEX OF TABLES
                                                                                                              I
                                                       (Contin~ed)

                                                                                                       Page   I
Table Al 33.   Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Shape of Object, Elliptical •             193

Table Al 34.

Table Al35.
               Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Shape of Object, Rocket and Aircraft

               Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Shape of Object, Meteor or Comet
                                                                                                       193

                                                                                                       194
                                                                                                              I
Table Al 36.   Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Shape of Object, Lenticular,
                Conical, or Teardrop                                                                   194
                                                                                                              I
Table A 137.

Table Al38.
               Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Shape of Object, Flame

               Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Shape of Object, Other Shapes.
                                                                                                       195

                                                                                                       195
                                                                                                              I
Table Al 39.

Table Al40.
               Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Shape of Object, Shape Not Stated

               Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Shape of Object, Elliptical
                                                                                                       196

                                                                                                       197    I
                                                                                                              I
Table Al41.    Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Shape of Object, Rocket and Aircraft    197

Table Al42.    Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Shape of Object, Meteor or Comet        198

Table Al43.    Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Shape of Object, Lenticular,


Table A 144.
                Conical, or Teardrop

               Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Shape of Object, Flame
                                                                                                       198

                                                                                                       199
                                                                                                              I
Table Al45.

Table Al46.
               Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Shape of Object, Other Shapes

               Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Shape of Object, Shape Not Stated.
                                                                                                       199

                                                                                                       200
                                                                                                              I
Table Al47.

Table Al48.
               Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Reported Speeds of Objects, Stationary

               Evaluation of All Sightings for AU Years by Reported Speeds of Objects, Less
                Than One Hundred Miles per Hour .
                                                                                                       201


                                                                                                       201
                                                                                                              I
Table Al49.    Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Reported Speeds of Objects, One
                Hundred to Four Hundred Miles per Hour                                                 202
                                                                                                              I
Table Al 50.


Table Al 51.
               Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Reported Speeds of Objects, Over
                Four Hundred Miles per Hour

               Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Reported Speeds of Objects,
                                                                                                       202
                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                              I
                Meteor-Like Speeds .                                                                   203

Table Al 52.   Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Reported Speeds of Objects,
                Speed Not Stated .                                                                     203

Table Al 53.

Table Al 54.
               Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Reported Speeds of Objects, Stationary.

               Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Reported Speeds of Objects, Less Than
                                                                                                       204
                                                                                                              I
                One Hundred Miles per Hour .                                                           204

Table Al 55.   Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Reported Speeds of Objects, One Hundred
                to Four Hundred Miles per Hour                                                         205
                                                                                                              I
Table Al56.


Table Al 57.
               Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Reported Speeds of Objects, Over
                Four Hundred Miles per Hour

               Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Reported Speeds of Objects,
                                                                                                       205    I
Table Al 58.
                Meteor-Like Speeds .

               Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Reported Speeds of Objects,
                Speed Not Stated .
                                                                                                       206


                                                                                                       206
                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                              I
                                                           102
                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                              I
I
I                                                      INDEX OF TABLES


I                                                         (Continued)




                                                                                                            207

I
    Table Al 59.   Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Reported Speeds of Objects, Stationary

    Table Al60.    Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Reported Speeds of Objects, Less
                    Than One Hundred Miles per Hour .                                                       207


I   Table Al 61.   Elevation of Object Sightings for All Years by Reported Speeds of Objects, One
                    Hundred to Four Hundred Miles per Hour.                                                 208

    Table Al 62.   Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Reported Speeds of Objects, Over

I   Table Al63.
                    Four Hundred Miles per Hour.

                   Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Reported Speeds of Objects,
                    Meteor-Like Speeds .
                                                                                                            208


                                                                                                            209


I   Table Al64.    Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Reported Speeds of Objects,
                    Speed Not Stated •                                                                      209



I   Table Al65.

    Table Al66.
                   Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Light Brightness.

                   Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Light Brightness
                                                                                                            210

                                                                                                            211



I   Table Al67.    Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Light Brightness                         212

    Table Al68.    Location of Observers During Sighting by Months for All Sightings, All Years             213

                                                                                                            214

I
    Table Al69.    Location of Observers During Sighting by Months for All Sightings, 1947

    Table Al70.    Location of Observers During Sighting by Months for All Sightings, 1948                  215

    Table Al71.    Location of Observers During Sighting by Months for All Sightings, 1949                  216

I   Table Al 72.   Location of Observers During Sighting by Months for All Sightings, 1950                  217

    Table Al 73.   Location of Observer During Sighting by Months for All Sightings, 1951    .              218

I   Table Al 74.

    Table Al 75.
                   Location of Observers During Sighting by Months for All Sightings, 1952

                   Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported for Duration
                                                                                                            219




I   Table Al 76.
                    of Sighting, White or Glowing White Objects .

                   Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported for Duration
                    of Sighting, Metallic Obje:::ts .
                                                                                                            220


                                                                                                            220


I   Table Al 77.   Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported for Duration
                    of Sighting, Object Color Not Stated                                                    221



I   Table Al 78.


    Table Al 79.
                   Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Golors Reported for Duration
                    of Sighting, Orange or Glowing Orange Objects •

                   Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported for Duration
                                                                                                            221


                    of Sighting, Red or Glowing Red Objects .                                               222

I   Table Al 80.   Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported for Duration
                    of Sighting, Green or Glowing Green Objects                                             222


I   Table AlBl.    Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported for Duration
                    of Sighting, Yellow or Glowing Yellow Objects .                                         223

    Table Al 82.   Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported for Duration

I   Table Al83.
                    of Sighting, Objects of Other Colors

                   Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported for Duration
                    of Sighting, White or Glowing White Objects .
                                                                                                            223


                                                                                                            224

I
I
I                                                            103

I
                                                                                                     I
                                                   INDEX OF TABLES
                                                                                                     I
                                                      (Continued)

                                                                                              Page   I
Table Al84.


Table Al85.
               Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported for Duration
                of Sighting, Metallic Objects .

               Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported for Duration
                                                                                              224
                                                                                                     I
                                                                                              225

                                                                                                     I
                of Sighting, Object Color Not Stated

Table Al86.    Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported for Duration
                of Sighting, Orange or Glowing Orange Objects .                               225

Table Al87.    Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported for Duration
                of Sighting, Red or Glowing Red Objects                                       226    I
Table Al88.    Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported for Duration


Table Al 89.
                of Sighting, Green or Glowing Green Objects

               Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported for Duration
                of Sighting, Yellow or Glowing Yellow Objects •
                                                                                              226


                                                                                              227
                                                                                                     I
Table Al 90.   Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported for Duration
                of Sighting, Objects of Other Colors                                          227
                                                                                                     I
Table Al 91.


Table Al 92.
               Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported for Duration
                of Sighting, White or Glowing White Objects .

               Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported for Duration
                                                                                              228
                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                     I
                of Sighting, Metallic Objects .                                               228

Table Al 93.   Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported for Duration
                of Sighting, Object Color Not Stated                                          229

Table Al 94.   Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported for Duration
                of Sighting, Orange or Glowing Orange Objects .                               229    I
Table Al 95.   Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported for Duration


Table Al 96.
                of Sighting, Red or Glowing Red Objects .

               Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported for Duration
                                                                                              230


                                                                                              230
                                                                                                     I
                of Sighting, Green or Glowing Green Objects.

Table Al 97.   Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported for Duration
                of Sighting, Yellow or Glowing Yellow Objects .                               231
                                                                                                     I
Table Al 98.


Table Al 99.
               Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported for Duration
                of Sighting, Objects of Other Colors

               Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting
                                                                                              231
                                                                                                     I
Table A200.
                for Duration of Sighting, One Object

               Evaluation of All Sightings for Ali Years by Number of Objects per Sighting
                for Duration of Sighting, Two Objects .
                                                                                              232


                                                                                              232
                                                                                                     I
Table A201.    Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting
                for Duration of Sighting, Three to Ten Objects •                              233    I
Table A202.    Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting


Table A203.
                for Duration of Sighting, Eleven or More Objects .

               Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting
                                                                                              233
                                                                                                     I
                for Duration of Sighting, Number of Objects Not Stated                        234

Table A204.    Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting
                for Duration of Sighting, One Object                                          235
                                                                                                     I
Table A205.    Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting
                for Duration of Sighting, Two Objects .                                       235    I
                                                                                                     I
                                                          104
                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                     I
I
I
I                                                        INDEX OF TABLES
                                                            (Continued)




I   Table A206.     Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting
                     for Duration of Sighting, Three to Ten Objects .                                     236



I   Table A207.


    Table A208.
                    Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting'
                     for Duration of Sighting, Eleven or More Objects .

                    Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting
                                                                                                          236




I   Table A209.
                     for Duration of Sighting, Number of Objects Not Stated

                    Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting
                     for Duration of Sighting, One Object
                                                                                                          237


                                                                                                          238


I   Table A210.     Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting
                     for Duration of Sighting, Two Objects .                                              238

    Table A211.     Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting

I   Table A212.
                     for Duration of Sighting, Three to Ten Objects •

                    Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting
                                                                                                          239


                     for Duration of Sighting, Eleven or More Objects •                                   239

I   Table A213.     Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting
                     for Duration of Sighting, Number of Objects Not Stated •                             240



I   Table A214.

    Table A215.
                    Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Geographic Location

                    Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Geographic Location
                                                                                                          241

                                                                                                          241



I   Table A216.

    Table A2 l 7.
                    Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Geographic Location

                    Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by North American Location.
                                                                                                          242

                                                                                                          243



I   Table A218.

    Table A219.
                    Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by North American Location

                    Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by North American Location
                                                                                                          243

                                                                                                          244



I   Table A220.

    Table A221.
                    Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by United States Regional Location

                    Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by United States Regional Location
                                                                                                          245

                                                                                                          246

    Table A222.     Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by United States Regional Location

I
                                                                                                          247

    Table A223.     Evaluation of All Sightings in the Strategic Areas of the Central East Region         248

    Table A224.     Evaluation of All Sightings in the Strategic Areas of the Central Midwest Region      248

I   Table A225.     Evaluation of All Sightings in the Strategic Areas of the Central Farwest Region      248

    Table A226.     Evaluation of All Sightings in the Strategic Areas of the South Midwest Region        249

I   Table A227.

    Table A228.
                    Evaluation of All Sightings in the Strategic Areas of the South West Region .

                    Evaluation of All Sightings in the Strategic Areas of the South Farwest Region
                                                                                                          249

                                                                                                          249


I   Table A229.

    Table A230.
                    Evaluation of Unit Sightings in the Strategic Areas of the Central East Region

                    Evaluation of Unit Sightings in the Strategic Areas of the Central Midwest Region
                                                                                                          250

                                                                                                          250


I   Table A231.

    Table A232.
                    Evaluation of Unit Sightings in the Strategic Areas of the Central Farwest Region .

                    Evaluation of Unit Sightings in the Strategic Areas of the South Midwest Region
                                                                                                          250

                                                                                                          251


I
I
I
I
                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                           I
                                                  INDEX OF TABLES
                                                     (Continued)

                                                                                                    Page
                                                                                                           I
Table A233.

Table A234.
              Evaluation of Unit Sightings in the Strategic Areas of the South West Region

              Evaluation of Unit Sightings in the Strategic Areas of the South Farwest Region
                                                                                                    251

                                                                                                    251
                                                                                                           I
Table A235.

Table A236.
              Evaluation of Object Sightings in the Strategic Areas of the Central East Region

              Evaluation of Object Sightings in the Strategic Areas of the Central Midwest Region
                                                                                                    252

                                                                                                    252
                                                                                                           I
Table A237.

Table A238.
              Evaluation of Object Sightings in the Strategic Areas of the Central Farwest Region

              Evaluation of Object Sightings in the Strategic Areas of the South Midwest Region .
                                                                                                    252

                                                                                                    253
                                                                                                           I
Table A239.

Table A240.
              Evaluation of Object Sightings in the Strategic Areas of the South West Region .

              Evaluation of Object Sightings in the Strategic Areas of the South Farwest Region .
                                                                                                    253

                                                                                                    253
                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                           I
                                                         106
                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                           I
I
I
                                              IV
I
                           7'/l.tlL£

                                         ,1LL         ~~,,,./5                                            d4"7                                                        /? ;/%                                             /9✓?
                                       Number             Per Cent                            Number                Per Cent                             Number               Per Cent                Number                Per Cent
         Evaluation         Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total              ertain Doubtful Total Certain lloublful Total             ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Cerlaon Ooubltul Total Ceit11R iiouiiiiiii                fo1_a_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -- - - ~ ~ -

I   ().Balloon
    l·Astronomical
    2•Aircraft
                            t1tJ
                            4'1/,
                            H'i
                                        /xtJ ¢.ti 1.4 St, /t/tl
                                        71// !?;1 ;¢.? /;Jt, 255
                                        'Jfli u/Z ///   f.tl 2tll
                                                                                         '7
                                                                                        rz

                                                                                         2
                                                                                                   /}
                                                                                                  ff
                                                                                                  :!
                                                                                                              ,; l...tJ
                                                                                                          ,t//}
                                                                                                                               /) (}

                                                                                                                 iV/ I.. !, ;'I/:!.
                                                                                                             ,;,' 11 1.1 1,/
                                                                                                                                        L.tJ      ;rt

                                                                                                                                                  qt,
                                                                                                                                                  JI,
                                                                                                                                                         2:J
                                                                                                                                                          <~
                                                                                                                                                           _.,- 21
                                                                                                                                                                       .?7
                                                                                                                                                                                 j".',;
                                                                                                                                                                                  1fi
                                                                                                                                                                                          'IS /%,
                                                                                                                                                                       ,,,,, Sf !?u 11..5 14
                                                                                                                                                                                          ,iJ/ /(/ ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                           /,f,


                                                                                                                                                                                                           ?I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /12,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   et
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,; 2/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '1/7£
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4//

                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,7 1i LI .'✓. ~'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /2,  -SJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              if." :J.,"". '5" .,s_,,,,,,

    3-Light Phenom.           u          2t/       ,,;/,.               t'l.f   ;.i       :z      t)         1      1.1        JJ(}      /.,,       :z      t,            ~               '2. It 3?        0         0     tJ 00 /,10 no

I
                                                             /.{J                                                                                                                  /Cl
    4-Birds                   If         /tl 29              tJ./,      #.J     tlf      ti      Cl          /J    Ou          /JI}     /,If/       e      s              s       /(/     I.,; '?.5         4'       I     5       II        oz          11
    S-Clouds, Dust. etc.      /2,        /;' ',1,C-         O.t/       tU.      1t        /j     ;,I         /}    () {)       Ii IJ    /] /]
                                                                                                                                                   0       Cl            0       tl.0     /J.O     00       tl      0      tJ     /J //      tlo        tlV
    6-lnsuffi~ Info.        2?J?          0 :!?t             I/;'       00      ?.J     4        tJ        ;,t,    ,?.CJ       /)/)     /[{)      ;o       tJ           1.'?      ¥. S'   (,/0     v.J J't,          0   _7(,      fl        C'O         ,p'

                                             ✓I                                                                                                                                           uo //,;                                                       £~

I
    7-Psychological          :Ji         /0                  IZ        OS'      /5       J'      2,         J;'     ~./,       1.1 z.'J'           I       0              I05                               J       0      J'     /l1        t!O
    S.Unlmown               U9            o;,H V!>                      CICJ ::..''5    2!?      tl "{ 2J9                    t}tJ 2 ,.~()        ,<n
                                                                                                                                                           ti          :Z7 /:1.Z          a,, 11;;        56        0    st. ///2.           0.L'       /I/<?
    9-0tti..                112-         rs //;f            J'S         /. I    4.t • I~          ,'/     1'!      ,,;;,; tJ.;} NI,;               ¢       ,f          IZ /Q              , : t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                   .5S     //       0    //       2i        C'V          :! i




I                                                                                      ,os                         ft.x 1/J.2 llf/0 ;v/ fl                            ::o,; /.~.5 S9,; 1,a-:
        Total              2100         ¥(//      ?ttJ/ -7/? 2il /VU                            /:Z,      //'1                                                                                            '2.31   /~£..'' :7f5 5$7,;        4?.5 /00




I        Evaluation
    O.Balloon
                                       Number
                                                   lf5'tl
                                                                     Per Cent                  Number
                                                                                                           ds/
                                                                                                                             Per Cent
                                                                                                                               Nunter                Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                      1tl5!!,,
                                                                                                                                                                             Number
                            Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Oooblhl Total ~ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Ooubtfu

                             S.l         ,j  Zf? !Ci Z.g If I //l                                 ,t/       ;l/ L.2            ?,5        11'1 ,.t1u :131 ,u 'T.I /I.-?''
                                                                                                                                         f{ '1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PerCSII
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Total Certain .Doobtlll Total

                                                                                                                   ,.,., 10.t. tt.2- ?t,t
I                                      f!!, '7,/ 111,:0 gz 21/2 25
    I-Astronomical           4'?                                                                 17        ,t/2,                                /1/1 '!90 12.9 /..o /JU
    2..Aircratt               r•       /!, nL 12.'1 "-(9 /'ti.       ;,:,                         1        4d 1111.0           5.0 15".tJ ~!,/) :zn 4f7 /2.L/ 115 1271
    J.Light Phenom.            0        1J   {)    /)/J  0.0 19.0                         z       I         .J' /.J'           t?.7 2.tl ,Z/,    ;'7 1/J' I.J /JJ Z/
    4-Binls                    /]       (}   0     rJ./} 17.IJ /7./1   ti                          I         /      LJ.tJ      /J.1 tJ.1 1;'      5    If IJ.I. cu /I4                                                                            --~
                                                   ,,

I   5-Clouds, Dus~ etc.
    6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
    7-Psychological
    S.UnknolMI               V
                               0
                             //f
                              //
                                         /J
                                         0
                                        (}
                                         {)
                                                  41
                                                   41
                                                             /]/)


                                                        00 /t.0 ;,j
                                                            //,.tJ
                                                         /1,/J /.3
                                                              I.J'   I
                                                  71 2n /J./J 2?.2. 52.
                                                                       /J./}    tJtJ      /]      /J
                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                 ,'J
                                                                                                           ,✓


                                                                                                          52,
                                                                                                             /]



                                                                                                             2,
                                                                                                                   00
                                                                                                                   Jf.1
                                                                                                                   /J.1
                                                                                                                   M.5
                                                                                                                               "·"
                                                                                                                               tl.O
                                                                                                                               t'J.7
                                                                                                                               11.0
                                                                                                                                    tJ.tJ 12- 1.J ?!, n.L 0.L /2.
                                                                                                                                        i'.1
                                                                                                                                        ;,t/
                                                                                                                                        f2.5 4H
                                                                                                                                                 /1,/,
                                                                                                                                                  21.
                                                                                                                                                            /.J
                                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                                                       ILi.
                                                                                                                                                                  '/'1 l.q OJ
                                                                                                                                                                                 &'.2

                                                                                                                                                            tJ ,t/,:,:: 21.i 00 ?:z.t,
                                                                                                                                                                                          /1/>     JC!
                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.t,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .. -




I   9-0lher


        Total
                              'I

                            :?;Z
                                         1        Al 2J 2A ,ft,

                                       5;,' j'tJ.., ft.1 11'1' //1/.l
                                                                     !?

                                                                                       ;t,i
                                                                                                 t7

                                                                                                f2,
                                                                                                           J{      !,,O


                                                                                                          It.CJ l</J.O W'1 /~
                                                                                                                               17.0      ~tJ      1,5'    w      ;,; '?.Z /.tl s,;.2,

                                                                                                                                                 ;,;.o ,;'ff IZtJlf 17:t.4 271, IW                                                                _j____




I                                   Number
                                              ALL           1Et9£S
                                                          Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                              /SU7
                                                                                                       Per Cent               Nuni>er               Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                      1Nf
                                                                                                                                                                            Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /fh<l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PerCml



I
         Evaluation         Certain Doublful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Domtlul Total Certain Ooobtlu Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doublful Total Certain DouLtfu                                       Total Certain lloobllul Toi.al
    0-Balloon               a2r /~/ J'J'9          J. 9 S9 JJ/.1    1'                                0      ?     '1.Z        /1.{J     '/.t     ;,t/      //}        U'        ft /,..5' 157              II      .:? 11/ 41 1.f ., tJ
                                                                                                      i                        it tH                       ?.1 55                111 11./, Hf                                       ?J' i 4U,
    I-Astronomical          .Sx%                  60 10.0 250 If
                                        '751,, l.1f                                                        1'1 l19t                               2.'/
                                                                                                                                                                                  r~ .2.J,. 1.2,4 I f
                                                                                                                                                                                                           ?,/     ftJ 1/d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '"·"
    2-Aircraft              zit,       2.35" 5:7? //.II 9.2 ?IJ.{, 2,                              z         ,/    '?/         ?,/       1/.t     /3            ,t/     If                                         /2,  ro 1(,, "',./ /? '?

I   3-Light Phenom.
    4-Birds
    5-Clouds_ Dus~ el~
    6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
                               ~2,

                               I~
                                .3
                             :1,i,J
                                         :Z/ 5f 1J o.f 1.J
                                          'O


                                          0
                                              7
                                                   Z.J
                                                    /0
                                                   Zt.l
                                                             tlS
                                                             ()./
                                                                   :,_
                                                                       (),4


                                                   10'l /J.O It/, 1, /Z,
                                                                        IJ.1
                                                                                /J,9
                                                                                0.4
                                                                                         0
                                                                                         0
                                                                                                  0

                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                   0

                                                                                                   t7
                                                                                                            2
                                                                                                             CJ
                                                                                                             /J
                                                                                                           It,
                                                                                                                   2,/
                                                                                                                    /J,O
                                                                                                                   /J.O
                                                                                                                   !?.I/
                                                                                                                               Ah
                                                                                                                               /J,11
                                                                                                                                IJ.0 /JO
                                                                                                                                        ?../
                                                                                                                                         /J.()
                                                                                                                                            l7
                                                                                                                               1).0 11.i/ / 'T
                                                                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                                                                   :z.
                                                                                                                                                             .7
                                                                                                                                                             .7
                                                                                                                                                             /'}

                                                                                                                                                             /J
                                                                                                                                                                         5
                                                                                                                                                                          s
                                                                                                                                                                          IJ
                                                                                                                                                                        11 I/ I
                                                                                                                                                                                  15
                                                                                                                                                                                  l?

                                                                                                                                                                                   tlO
                                                                                                                                                                                          2 {J
                                                                                                                                                                                          'l/J
                                                                                                                                                                                          tl.O
                                                                                                                                                                                          (l 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    qJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                    ?.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                   IJ.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                   If./
                                                                                                                                                                                                            z
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             /J



                                                                                                                                                                                                           j'J     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /.l lj ,? IJ{J I.Ju
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .J' t7.$ /J.Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /J   tJ.tJ /JO /} J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        r, 11/0 /4 /] !¢tl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,_z


I   7-Psychological
    8-IJAknown
    9-0thei
                               ,;,;,
                            L/91
                               'iZ,
                                         .9 4"5 /.I/ /J.t/ J.i
                                          C)/,1-pt 19.f tltJ d.5 2✓
                                         Zi 1,:Zo 1.1. I. I 11.1 /J,
                                                                      .?                          z
                                                                                                   ,?
                                                                                                  tJ
                                                                                                            ~

                                                                                                          t~ ?.t/f
                                                                                                           //,
                                                                                                                   .JI

                                                                                                                   lt,S 0. {J
                                                                                                                               ?.I 52
                                                                                                                               /JO 1U?
                                                                                                                                            J


                                                                                                                                        /1,.,J;'
                                                                                                                                                 '*Q
                                                                                                                                                             ,'J

                                                                                                                                                             Cl
                                                                                                                                                             .,, 1/
                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                        //,
                                                                                                                                                                           () 1
                                                                                                                                                                                 Ill~
                                                                                                                                                                                 ?, /,.
                                                                                                                                                                                          JJ tJ       3
                                                                                                                                                                                                   t?.1
                                                                                                                                                                                          /J.O 1/0; J''J
                                                                                                                                                                                           4.J. ?.Z   b
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (J

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           t,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ?    /. J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.1/.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  p,; ,JI)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             O.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,,   /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1-ICJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ?§




I       Total               1111 1;7 ?!:,I/ '11.f ~f./ /tl().                          £5'      /2-         91 f1t 11.'/ /Of).                    9'1      51/ 11,J !,i/.1 15'..J 11m                     jl/1)    91,   111, ,;fl,/ ;,,ot- 100




I        Evaluation
    O.Balloon
                                    Nu-
                                                  ds-o
                                                          Per Cent
                            Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                             21!-         5' ?1 /,1.;, .t4 1-t.?    4
                                                                                               Nwnbe1
                                                                                                             /f.?/
                                                                                                                            Per Cent
                                                                                       ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                   g J1!, Lt, 2.z f.i //,,( /W '}t;,e 'll 7.5 111
                                                                                                                                                        Numbet'
                                                                                                                                                                         //~::..
                                                                                                                                                                              Per Cent                Number                Pertml
                                                                                                                                                 ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Ooobtlul Total Certain Do-I Total


                                                                                                 /// ?~ 15.J' //} :z. !5.5 219 !Of fl/I 1.7.9 L. 1 '1.o.t
I                                       ;J? ., tJ 2/J. I ,(I. 1i1 LI
    I-Astronomical           ,t/2,
    2-Aircraft                '/CJ       //  /(/ !tlj ,;.J N.t,   It                              J? ,,,; II 1 5% / 7.-  .~ '1 II 19% 1/IJ9 11.1 11.5 IH~
    ~LighlPhalOm.              {J        CJ   tJ /J.(J O.tl /J.O   ?.                              I  J' ·I~ /J1 1..i '7£ 11 1/.7 15 /,/J t.,
    4-Birds                    /J         /J        tJ       /J,/J      IJ ,?   /JtJ     {J       I    I IJ.0 IJ. .,, /J 1      lj  5 //I ().5 11.. 11.I

I   5--Clouds,0ust, etc.
    6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
    7-rsychological
    S.Unlcnown
                              0
                             2/,
                              z,
                             42
                                          CJ
                                          0
                                          tJ
                                          CJ
                                                    (J
                                                   2/,
                                                    2,
                                                   4~ ,Mt
                                                             JJ.O
                                                            ;-? 1/

                                                             J.0
                                                                        /JtJ IJ.0
                                                                       tl.Cl /J.4
                                                                      '/)./] /.tJ

                                                                  0.0 Ml
                                                                                         Cl
                                                                                        ;(I
                                                                                         I
                                                                                        f'J'
                                                                                                  Cl
                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                  /J
                                                                                                            Cl
                                                                                                           ;,/ It?.$
                                                                                                             2. /} 7
                                                                                                                    J!l.tJ



                                                                                                           .7!? 1,,-,7 tJ. tJ
                                                                                                                                /J.O /JO
                                                                                                                               /J ()
                                                                                                                               /} '1    /II
                                                                                                                                               g
                                                                                                                                        102 115~
                                                                                                                                                  21,
                                                                                                                                        :1-11 J''II/
                                                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                                                             ti 154
                                                                                                                                                            I,
                                                                                                                                                            /]
                                                                                                                                                                 1t
                                                                                                                                                                        ;tJ tJ 2- ()4 tJ.{,,
                                                                                                                                                                            9.t tJ.tJ 'l.t

                                                                                                                                                                      :?.!,'//
                                                                                                                                                                                  /.5 /). .1 d
                                                                                                                                                                                 217.0 tl.O 12~,:,

I   !j.Qtlla


        Total
                               ~


                            l7tJ
                                         5

                                        .7? 209
                                                   //       4. 9 'J ,I ,;::,

                                                            Id I ( t '1"".
                                                                                         fl


                                                                                       /t)9
                                                                                                  tJ         ~     K.$

                                                                                               ?. K !11 1/?.1, ;'J.ll/ 11•.;?.
                                                                                                                               .a/]     ,;:g SP           JI,           I,{


                                                                                                                                                 111!~ LI~, 11n ?1,1 tl.1 /Pr).
                                                                                                                                                                                  1./J IJ, 9  ?.9




I                                                                                                                            107

I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                       tf.$'                                                                                                                                                                           I
0-BallDDII
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
1-Asbonolaical
2-Airaaft
Higt,tPhenom.
4-Birds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
6-lnsulli~ ~b.
7-Psydlllo&ical                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
!Mllber

                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                              Number
                                       /fc.?
                                                    Percent                 Number
                                                                                         /?S-/
                                                                                                  Percent                      Nulll>er
                                                                                                                                        /~-2.
                                                                                                                                                     Per Cenl                Nu•ber                 Pe,C<nl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
     Evaluation
0-BailOCMI
1-Astrooomical
2-Airaaft
                      Certain OOUblful Total Certain Oooblful Total Certain Doubtful Total Ceflain Ooublld Total
                        fl/
                       ?5
                       ?1,
                                q
                               ;t/
                                 t;
                                        ?5 1?.II ?._;/ !ti.~
                                        ?9 ;;/f ff.'! !.V
                                        u 1.5'.IJ s.3 Jli'.1
                                                                        i'
                                                                       11,
                                                                       /',
                                                                              14
                                                                               /.
                                                                                    ?     II     t.L
                                                                                          ~,, JV I/.
                                                                                                    ?.5 ?.I N 1t 111 UI
                                                                                                       I, IN.Ji' ,,,,
                                                                                                                        ertain Oooblful Total Certain Doubtful Total Cellain Ooublfu
                                                                                                                                       n; 119
                                                                                                                      fl ,, / :2 11.,I /. I ,i..
                                                                                          ti !d.t/ .;:tJ 11.¢ 19.1 171. fl,f l:t.? II 7 I'll/I
                                                                                                                                               n
                                                                                                                                                                                       Total Cerbin OOJbtful • Tot.t

                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                       ,,,,
3-Li&lltl'll!nom.
4-Birds
:.Clouds, Oust, el~
6-lnsuffic. kifo.      N
                         tJ
                         IJ
                         /J
                                 IJ
                                 /J
                                IJ
                                 I)
                                         /)

                                         I)
                                         tJ
                                            11./J
                                               /1 fl
                                               /J;;
                                       ?t/ ;;It,
                                                        /Jn
                                                       /).f}
                                                       I}/)
                                                               ,,,,
                                                               ,,,,,
                                                       -1 I? IQ~ 1//
                                                                        I
                                                                        17
                                                                        17
                                                                                I
                                                                                I
                                                                               17
                                                                               IJ
                                                                                          1, IJ.i tJi It H
                                                                                           I /}/} /JX /I~
                                                                                          {J    /J /)
                                                                                         ;t/ If.I,
                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                         IJ.t) /J.t, ?
                                                                                                         tJ.O 116 11/K
                                                                                                                      Fl .19 I.? A.f ?I.
                                                                                                                       S" t./ /15 /J 'l /JS
                                                                                                                                  7 1/)
                                                                                                                                  tJNt
                                                                                                                                              /).?
                                                                                                                                               ff
                                                                                                                                                      O,;;
                                                                                                                                                       /1_/J
                                                                                                                                                               /J.7
                                                                                                                                                             f.f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1
7-Psycllolo!ical
II-Unknown
!Mllller
                        !2,
                       _N
                        ~
                                 /J
                                 t:J
                                 f
                                          z /?.        /Jn
                                                     /.:Z
                                        19 1!.IJ n/J U/J
                                         9 15 /.Ji' f;,J
                                                                        I
                                                                       fJ
                                                                        'I'
                                                                               I
                                                                               tJ
                                                                               tJ
                                                                                          t, IJ.K
                                                                                         n 27.1
                                                                                           7    ,;:~
                                                                                                         IJ.f    /./,

                                                                                                          tJ.tJ 5:f
                                                                                                                      ?5'
                                                                                                         tl.lJ 21.f .ftJJ
                                                                                                                         s-/ /Q
                                                                                                                                  I. JI
                                                                                                                                  /} l.10.r

                                                                                                                                       ~5
                                                                                                                                               I.?
                                                                                                                                              M.t
                                                                                                                                               ,.~ tJf
                                                                                                                                                       A. I/ 2./
                                                                                                                                                       /)tl    ?/J.t
                                                                                                                                                               ,/ f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
    Total             139     .3 tl Iii. 9 ff?..3 ;:(? Jtl/J.          95 21,           /1,/ 11'.I' 5"   ,,, { ' It)(). '075" I/ti, ,,:-,,,; 171.1. 2.i'.¢ ,,,n_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                         108
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
I
I
I                                 JA ,,, , ~      ,0 V
                                                                                                      ff

                                                                                                 F r6J<?(,IA~~
                                                                                                                 tfLL

                                                                                                                                                           M,1,:,c,.                              A~H''-
                                      lmmbef                Per Cent                 Number                Per Cent                                       Number          Per Cent                Number                Per Cent


I            EVIi-
        ~8111111111
        l•Aslnlnomical
                               Certan Doubtful Totll Certain Doubtful Total t;ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                  3
                                2'1      ,,,3 6 2.1 n 4'.
                                            15 'l.J.3 H.fl ff/
                                                                                      ~    'I
                                                                                                17
                                                                                                                '1.7 0.0
                                                                                                        ,, J3'f 18.3
                                                                                                        0                       16
                                                                                                                     /7.1 '3S.S 1
                                                                                                                                        "/.]
                                                                                                                                             ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Cer1Jin Doubtful Total Certain Dou!>lfUI Toi-


                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                            'I
                                                                                                                                                           )0
                                                                                                                                                                     20
                                                                                                                                                                     9.t :7.~ 12.,
                                                                                                                                                                     ,; I 1},7             ,2.
                                                                                                                                                                                                     J I (J 3-) l . f j'.(J
                                                                                                                                                                                                 HJ S2
                                                                                                                                                                                                         7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   'f   /,/      JC 0 'l.f JQ,S
                                 {,       3 9 1/.'f 2.;                                          'I      s        l'f        I.>, I 13     7 30 13,9 'f.1 li,J                                                    9     3' JI/ I             'f. p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 !R._P
        Hircralt
                                                                                 "' n                                "·' 5."                                                                             )/i


I       3-Li;,tPho,om.
        I-Birds
        S-Clouds, Dus~ el~
                                  0
                                  0
                                  0
                                          0 0 o. 0 0.6 0. 0
                                           0
                                           0
                                                     0
                                                     ()
                                                                 o.o
                                                                n.D
                                                                        Q. G 0.0
                                                                        o.O 0.0
                                                                                                 0

                                                                                                ()
                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                   0 O.D o.O o.o 0
                                                                                                                   0 o. 0 o.o q. D s
                                                                                                                   0 /).{, 0. 0 o.o   0
                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                           Q
                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                              0 o. 0 o.o Q,p
                                                                                                                                               !i 3 0 o.o J. 0
                                                                                                                                               I o.O o. t I.I,
                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                          If

                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             s- :1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           O.I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             o.o Q,5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             o.s 7,S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              O.P o.o
                                                                f.'J    0. ~ 5.9                                                           0 12 11:l o.o 11.3                                            u        0     2' 110                o. (J IJ.C
        6-lnsuffl~lnlo.
                                  ,
                                  9        0             (}                                     /J       Q        /J       0.0 l'I.O 12

I       7-Psyd,ololical
        1--
        ~
                                 1(,
                                  q
                                           0
                                           0
                                              I
                                                     2, l'f.
                                                    10
                                                         ~      I ..< o.o /.~

                                                                   e a.,
                                                                 ,.1
                                                                        Q.0 /,..
                                                                        0,7      7-3            B
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                II,
                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                         '"
                                                                                                                   0 o.o 0.0

                                                                                                                           0.() i.6
                                                                                                                                        o.o
                                                                                                                                       ()
                                                                                                                  IG 17-2 o.o 17.1 1'f 0
                                                                                                                                          (J  0 o. D o.O 0.0
                                                                                                                                                  17.f 0,0 17.~
                                                                                                                                       I 17 18 o., JP.:J 10.1,
                                                                                                                                                                 ,..,                                    n
                                                                                                                                                                                                          J

                                                                                                                                                                                                           z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0 :/ /.P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0 J7 78.S'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0 '2 /.Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              o.o /,Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              o.q 2f'.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0,0      J.0


                                                                                                                                                            '19 ,,,
I          Total                 83 SJ l36 (,J.C 3f.Q ,no. n. 2/ '13 m n, 119, // 7                                                                                            10.• 1q.1 /00· l7f                '2!    200 8f.S 10 S /l}P.




I            Enluation
                                         NAv
                                       Nmnbef                Percent                 Number
                                                                                              ,r,,A/ ~
                                                                                                            Per Cent
                                                                                                                                       ,T11 v
                                                                                                                                   Namer                 Per Cenl
                                                                                                                                                                                 A11,11,:,r
                                                                                                                                                                                 Numbef                PerCmt
                               Certain Doubtful Totll Certain Doublful Tolal Certain Doul>tful Totll Certain Doubllu Tola! ~ertain Doubtful Tolal Certain Dou!>llul Total Certan DoulilfU Total Certain DooblfUI Tota
                                                                                                                                                                                       ,. r
                                21./      s                                                      If; IS.~ 2 ,6 16.~ IC!O H IS5' /0.8                                /0 3f 'I 't BJ 7, Rlf- /.rf

I
        0-BallOCNI
        1-A-ical                JB
                                15
                                         /0
                                         1$
                                                2f 12.~ ).t />.D 3•
                                                    38 11'.~ 51 lf.t 29
                                                    'fl)        12.,    7- 7 ,o., Jo
                                                                                                        )3
                                                                                                        IJ
                                                                                                           '     .J 2 /J.7 IP./ 2:l.i /J & H
                                                                                                                                5. 7 Ii.ti IJJ             'I .8
                                                                                                                                                                     171 ll.S S.'I
                                                                                                                                                                        /If.< /I. r; 7'1.fi
                                                                                                                                                                     :/J/
                                                                                                                                                                                                 IR.;    n       70 l1J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 H 107 ,11.~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /U-2        I.}. I/ J.3 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IA. 6    u.,
        2-Aircralt
        Hipll'tl010m.            3        3              {,     1.5     /·.< ~./)                I       J
                                                                                                                  'f.J
                                                                                                                   't
                                                                                                                         a.?
                                                                                                                         0 ~    I. 1 /.7 /If                 'f      18 /.f o. If !.'I
                                                                                                                                                                                                         r:i
                                                                                                                                                                                                          7        7    l'7          I   1    /. 3     ,.,
                                          J   ;, 0.1 /. Q /,Q                                                                   o.o r1.~                      3           7 0- If o. 3 a. 7                                      n.O                   n.o
I
        I-Birds                     0                                                            0       ()      • 0     0.0                       l.f                                                    0        0         0               0 d
        S-Clouds, Dust, etc.      8        () B 1/.I o.l} 4./                                    0       (}        0     Q.n    0, ()   o.o       4-             I    }        ()/,;   n     I   n_ t'    n         I        I   /J 0        uz o 2
        6-lnsuffi~lnfo.          72        0 2.? 11.J O.P //. J                                 7<       0        '2S !/. p     Q.Q     //. ()   (}9          0 f?B                    o. 0 ~5' 'H                 0    "15 ~-/,             P.0 B'
        7-Psychological             (1     p  0                 n.o o..1 n.,                     t.     0           (,   ?_r,   P.Q     ';1.6,
                                                                                                                                        n~ 19!;
                                                                                                                                                   'I                          "''
                                                                                                                                                              'I If /. {) /. 0 1.0                        10        I  l I /. 'I             0. 2 )../



I
        1-UnknoMI                36        0 31,                ti.I,   0- p 1/1.~          't 7         0        'f7           0-0                           0 115 ')/.0              00 '21.0 I If               0 /19 JJ.B                (). 0    21.9
        9-0lller                  'I      'f       13           'f.l,   2.- I 6,                 8      I
                                                                                                                   " ""
                                                                                                                     J.~ o.'t J.'J If a                       I 'II "/.J               {)./ !I.If II               7 18 2-1                  I. J     J If

            Total               IH       3q fqf 1f.? ;2!)./ /00. 192                                  If 6        2.18 7f.B     2f.) 106,        103       '16 92'/ 75, 7 2lf. 3 //J.0.                  lJ(,    I fS 5'21 t',' l 3.,.5 /()().



I                                     ',Ei"T,E'"MJrT/i'                                               O,r.-,.,~                                          ,1... - ·-•e.lf'                                       PFc,,._,r,H


 I
                                       Number                Per Cent                Nu-                   Per Cent                                        Nudler             Per Cent                 Number               Per Call
             Evaluation        Certain DOUbtful Totll Certain Doubtful Tolal Certain DoublfUI Total Certain Doobllul Total                       ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doul>lfUI Tola! Certain DoulilfU Tola! Certam Doobtful Total
        0-BallOCNI              6        I 'f UJ2.P C,'           It             u                      'J/       37 83 /().' l'/.1 5                        If       '23 3. 0             //.0 l'1.1     'I      7     Ir,       J'.lf      't-2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               f:'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,,., ,,g. 5' J7.5
         l•Astrormical          31       II '12 llf.8 f,l U,() 'I 0                                     2/        61 21.8 /0.f 11.7 28                       ✓,
                                                                                                                                                                     57 17. I 17. 7 39.I                  11     Ji     63
                                                                                                                                                                     27 t.7 fl 11.,f                                    u
                                         37 fl t,.7 /7,/,. .11/.J //                                              18 5, 7 f.'I II/./, /1                    I I,                                                 I 't
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,.,7./ 8() 03 15.o.t't
I
        2•Aircralt              I I-{                                                                   I 7                                                                                              I?
        3-Lighll'tlom.              I     2 3 n: < /. D 1.5 I                                            'I        5' 0 S 71          3 u                     I       ~        /.$     o.' l-'I            I       0     I
        I-Birds                      I    1. 3 0,5 ,.o /.f J                                              2        7 J.6 /.O '1.L. 0                          ()      ()       o., o. Q Q./)               0       0         0   O. I         0. 0 0. 0
        S-Clouds, Dost, etc.        0      I              I      0,0    O.'i o..'>               0          I      I o.u ().5 o.s      0                      i       9        o. 0 'f.9 ~-'I              n       ()        0 o.o            0. 0    ().0
                                 :io       q         20         'If     o.P 'H I 2.                               n             o.o
                                                                                                                               r,.;J i                                B l;.9                              9        I}        'f r;_ "         11, 0   s:,,.
 I
        6-Jnsuffi~ Info.                                                                                    /)        /.7                                     Q                        ().{)     'f,,
        7-Psychololical            3        ()                3 /."'    (). p /,J/,              I         11      I o.s        o. () (J.J        I          0        I        D.,     ().IJ     o.t       ii      0 'f          .?. 'f       11 /J 1.'f
                                                     St, 2{7                                               n                     o.o Ii,]                    (}      3:/ ,p,;          Q. 0
        1-UnknoMI
        9-0lller
                                 H
                                    &'
                                           (J
                                           3 II                 3-11
                                                                        (J./J
                                                                         /, I;   ,.
                                                                                 2t.7
                                                                                      ;/
                                                                                            3t
                                                                                                '.l      I
                                                                                                                  Jt li,7
                                                                                                                   'f /.'       o.s , I
                                                                                                                                                 17
                                                                                                                                                   If        I}           'I   J.'f    o.l :1..~
                                                                                                                                                                                                 /1.(    '10
                                                                                                                                                                                                           'f     Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0 'fO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  JN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S.'t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ().0    JJ.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0 p ,,,,.



 I          Toi■                 I lfO    7()      .1/tJ (,C.7 33..J /00. 1)5'                          (, 7 lf2 &!./ 3'1,'! !PO.                 f2        12 1''/ !&./ 'fJ.'l Ill.                     11&     f2     /~8 tr,o             J.U ,;,.




 I
 I
 I
    I
I


I   I
                                                                                                                                109
I   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                               6'y'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                         MPIVTH




      EYliuation
                                   Nmober
                                            T,,,,yU .d A ..
                                                                         Per Cent                      _,
                       Certain Doubtful Total Ceitain ~ I Total Certlia Damlful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                /y_:,;:; I v A ,R v
                                                                                                                                  Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                               -.            MA""<#

                                                                                                                                                       ertain Doublfvl Tola! Certain
                                                                                                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                                                                                                               Per Cent                      Nu■ llef

                                                                                                                                                                                                           Total Certaia lloulJlfv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AP-e,1.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Pertffll
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Total Certain llalblful Total
 0-Ballooo
 l-As1nn>llical
2-Airaafl                                                           i'<'                                                           ·c                                                      ,IY'-                                                        J ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
3-Li&lrtPtr-.                                                                                                              ~ I'                                                       ..."                                                          ... \
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,.,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                  ~
4-Binls
5-<:louds.llosl,elc.
                                                         /    :\\
                                                              ;
                                                                                                                        ,..,_\
                                                                                                                          y                                                          ~"
                                                                                                                                                                                     y                                                             'I
6-lnsuffic.lllo.
7-Psydlllogir:at
                                             .
                                             ~
                                              ~
                                                                                                                   -
                                                                                                                  \.'                                                 ~~·
                                                                                                                                                                             t--
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     \   ""
8-Untmo..
9--0ther
                                                                                                                 \-                                                      \                                                            ,-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
    Total




     Evaluation
0-Balloon
                               Number
                                            M~v
                                                     Per Cent                Nundler


                                                                                                I
                                                                                                       TvAI/.
                                                                                                   Per Cent
                       Certain Doublfvl Total Certain Doublful Total Certain Doublfvl Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                         ()        I      ?:7
                                                                                                                         ,,,,
                                                                                                                                    o.o 77
                                                                                                                                                               -. -
                                                                                                                                                       ertain Doubtful Total Certain
                                                                                                                                                          (
                                                                                                                                                          s
                                                                                                                                                                  ,TtJLY




                                                                                                                                                                     0          6' /'-1
                                                                                                                                                                                               Per Cent

                                                                                                                                                                                                   AA /n.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Total Certain lloublfv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (')
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A vtiP~,..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Nu■ llef



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Total Certain llalblful Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Per Cent


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     17.t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -n.s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 f'J.t/     0,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -., IL"7/,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
l-As1Jonomical                                                                                  t)          I                                  7, 7               ~            'i' 9/              .t,J ,u. ..
                                                                                                                   I                 7.7
                                                                                                                                                                    '                                                              I          7                  /

2-Airaafl                                                                                       2        I)       J1.                        IS:O         ()    ·1            ~       l?.O                 ~J.       I)                      0       IJ,0                   ()_I)
                                                              ,;,_ "
                                                                                                                        /';"/J       0.1)                                                          :?I.                         I\                              /1,
3-Li&lrl Ptrenom.                                                                              0         0        I?    ,., /J      LJ./)     /) n        I       n            I      d           110      l'i       0          0            I)       l./1      A,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IJ.O
4-Binls                                                      I""-.'                            IJ        n                                    ,,_,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                      ao                             0          0          ~
                                                                                                                   " .,,,. An                            (1       /)          /J                  I',()
                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,,,, '20                                           h,0        0.0        IJ{)
                                                                                                                         A,,


                                                                                                                                                                                       ,,,,,                                                         ,.,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                              n,..                                                                              I)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .
5-<:louds. Dus~ elc.                              I\\                                          /)        ()       {)                 d.0                 0        /)          0                            IJ./)    /}                      ()                  An         (}_(l
6-lnsuffic.lnfo.                                                                               ::('      0        3     2,.,                             'I       ()           r 1#.S             1).0 1/4(_!'                 C)                   nr          ~-0 12.t;°
                                                                                                                                    0./J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .,,1
                                                                                                                                             7::1,/                                                                  7
                                                                                                                                                                 .z.                                                                                                        ,,
7-Psydlllogical
                                       "                                                        I       ()         I     7. 7        tl.o      ?.}'       0
                                                                                                                                                                  n
                                                                                                                                                                               ;z.     11_1)
                                                                                                                                                                                     .,,~
                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.!      -,r      b
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,         tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        All
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           7 1/'J,I /J./J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /)I)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          "~"
                                                                                                                                    ao .,.,
II-Unknown                                                                                     t.J      0         I>    :?nQ        ().i)    :,,,9     I.Z                   1;;,.                IJ.f) , , Q
                                      "'                                                                ,,.,
9--0ther


    Total
                                                                                                I

                                                                                              I/-        I
                                                                                                                   I     7.?

                                                                                                                 I.J 'l.:U          1.7 /Pf),
                                                                                                                                                       /6

                                                                                                                                                       11-f
                                                                                                                                                                  0          16 1-,q I

                                                                                                                                                                 7 ST 87.J 12 1 1/()0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 (l,0 l?q/          Q


                                                                                                                                                                                                                   If"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0           /)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I 16 19:;,.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0 do

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                l,.] /OP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           {)_IJ

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
     Evaluation
0-Balloon
l•Astmoomical
                              0
                              I
                                  'i = -
                               Nmollef



                                      ()
                                                     -
                                                      Per Cea!


                                                     p d.P
                                                     I /£7
                                                              -R$R

                       Certain DolJbtlul Total Certain Doublill Total Certlin Damlful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                      0                                   /),I)
                                                                           ,,_,,, IJ.7 lu
                                                                           ,,.,,
                                                                                       d.O


                                                                                               p
                                                                                                ()
                                                                                                      -
                                                                                                      //rTpN, · g
                                                                                                   Per Cent



                                                                                                        J
                                                                                                         0        ()    R.0
                                                                                                                                     "·' O.D
                                                                                                                 //, !n7 II) f" ll?JJ, •
                                                                                                                                                          {)
                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                               A/pv$"M "i:rg
                                                                                                                                                              NullDer


                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                              /)
                                                                                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                                                                                                    Per Cent                  Number
                                                                                                                                                       ertain Doubtfvl Total Certain lloulltful Total Certain lloublfv Total Ceruin Ooibtllll Total
                                                                                                                                                                                     tf_O
                                                                                                                                                                                     :,:,3
                                                                                                                                                                                                   P.o o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                17.3 ';: ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (""
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .1?,::-t:~-"#Q~/j"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PerCml



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .-       PR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /A/J?J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ~/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                110
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             t?.11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /tl(),/)     I
2~ircraft                                                         An                                    IJ                                                        0           I)      /),()                                                 0        tJ.O        PO
                          /')         I)          h
                                                                                  "·'
                                                                                 ,.,,.,                           "      ,1.tJ.     "-0       /?./)      0                                        00
                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                           P.D       IJ         0                                            tJ./1
                                                                                                                                                                               I 33..'i
                                                                                                                                                                                      ,,_,, tJ,0 -ns
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                      ()                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                 "
3-Li&lrtPtr.....          fJ                      /J                       /JA                          I)        0                            /Jn       I                                                           0          0                    (J,/J      IJ.O        OD
4-Binls                              0            ()
                                                                  A.I)
                                                                           ,.,,, ao                                      /l./)
                                                                                                                         ,.,,
                                                                                                                                    0/J
                                                                                                                                              ,.,,,                                               ao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /)
5-<:louds, Du~ etc.
                          0
                          b          I)          {)
                                                              /'J/J
                                                               4,/J
                                                                           ,,,, o.n
                                                                           ""'                 "" p     0
                                                                                                        /)
                                                                                                                  ()
                                                                                                                  0      /J.O
                                                                                                                                    IJ.IJ
                                                                                                                                    40        /'J.O     0
                                                                                                                                                         I)      /)
                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                   " ao
                                                                                                                                                                              ()
                                                                                                                                                                                      ,., I)      /J./l    ao
                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               tJ          II
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /JO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 tJ.D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                120
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IJ.l)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,..,,.,
6-lnsuffit.lnlo.           I         I}        I              /J.)                  ltt: "7    I}                ()     1),0       P.O 17.0              ()      C)          0                   ()_/)               0         0                     {},()      IJ.0        /JO
                                                              ,~.., ,, ,, I16, '7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           d
                                                                                                                                                                     ,.,,,
7-Psycllologir:al
8-Unkno..
9-0ther
                          I
                          ~
                          I)
                                     0
                                     I}

                                     0
                                              3

                                              0
                                                 I
                                                              t:11 n

                                                                  0,/J
                                                                          /) I) lrn.n
                                                                          /)J?       /JI}
                                                                                                I
                                                                                               .2
                                                                                               I}
                                                                                                        /J
                                                                                                        d
                                                                                                         n        I     5.3
                                                                                                                  '7 /(l.J
                                                                                                                  17
                                                                                                                                    IJ,,?
                                                                                                                                    r, ,,
                                                                                                                         ,.,.,, IJ.P ().0
                                                                                                                                             _<,?
                                                                                                                                             11J.S
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         I)
                                                                                                                                                         ()
                                                                                                                                                                 ~
                                                                                                                                                                 0 " ,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                              I}
                                                                                                                                                                              ?J      11.IJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                  /'JI?

                                                                                                                                                                                                 4()
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ti.I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                          o.n
                                                                                                                                                                                                          o.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                          /J./)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ()

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     O.P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     O.I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ""
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                QA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0. 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /II.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /J/1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IJ.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                              /7 ,,z..                                                                                                              .r
    Total                 I         0         6 V.:t1.o                   /},,      14')                        19 '/9$ Id,., /~                        2...     I           3       IM:'1 :Js.1 It».                          I}        5          /IJ0,4      0.0 lo/).

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                   110
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
I
I
I
                           'f'.IJlijE            /It.              £1/,£L J/AT?,{1111

                                    J',4ut,.LUV                                                      ,C$6' R'f/AR'r'                                                MA .fi"C//                                                 Ar.Ir/'-
                                      fcml>er             Pe,C111t                                   Number               PerC111t                Numt,e,               PerCeot                 Nu-                   Pe,Clllt
          EVIi-             Certain Ooubllul Total Certain Doubtful Total                    ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubllul Total ~ertain Doubllul Total Certain Doubtful Tolll Certain Doubtful Total Certlin O.llul Tot-


I    II-Balloon
     l·Asbonomical
     2-Aircraft
                                ()
                              /IJ
                               I)
                                          c?
                                          ::?
                                         /7
                                                     0 IM
                                                             ,.,,,
                                                                   "-'
                                                    13 L?~ /<; 7 811
                                                        p       t>.O       ,i   A   ,, I)
                                                                                               0
                                                                                               7
                                                                                               0
                                                                                                         I)
                                                                                                         2
                                                                                                        l:J
                                                                                                                  p
                                                                                                                  q
                                                                                                                 /)
                                                                                                                          (),I)
                                                                                                                        ,,,..,,,.
                                                                                                                          O.t!
                                                                                                                                       t),/)


                                                                                                                                       /},()
                                                                                                                                                /J,D
                                                                                                                                     ' " 7. IIAD,I)
                                                                                                                                                 /JfJ
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                                            p
                                                                                                                                                                      {)
                                                                                                                                                                      p
                                                                                                                                                                      IJ
                                                                                                                                                                              ;z.
                                                                                                                                                                                 0

                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                         P.I)

                                                                                                                                                                                       ~,;
                                                                                                                                                                                        D./)
                                                                                                                                                                                                  t>/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                  IJ.D 17> ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                  tJ.IJ   "~
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,,_ I     2.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ':/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2 I///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        g  0.lJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        'i' 11'.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 l),p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               /Jn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           II.I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       r ~t/::,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /J.1' /6 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0                                 1),0 /J,0

I
     ~Lilli! Phtnom.
     4-Birds
                              /)
                               /)
                                         ()
                                         0
                                                        ~
                                                        I)
                                                               IJ.O
                                                               0,/J
                                                                           o.o
                                                                          /)./)
                                                                                    /J./J
                                                                                    AA

                                                                                     ,.,,
                                                                                               0
                                                                                               0
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                         p
                                                                                                                   lJ
                                                                                                               ., I)
                                                                                                                          IJ,{)
                                                                                                                          r) ()
                                                                                                                                      tJ.o
                                                                                                                                      IJ.O
                                                                                                                                       ,,,,
                                                                                                                                                 ll,P
                                                                                                                                                /),I)
                                                                                                                                                           I)
                                                                                                                                                           /J
                                                                                                                                                                      I)
                                                                                                                                                                     lJ
                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                        ,?.()
                                                                                                                                                                                       /J./)
                                                                                                                                                                                                  IJ.P
                                                                                                                                                                                                  d./J
                                                                                                                                                                                                          0./J
                                                                                                                                                                                                          /7.I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I      /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I           .-.~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     O.P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .            /J h     '!i.i.
     5-Ctouds, Dust, et~
     6-lnsuffi~ ~lo.
                              0
                              L
                                         0
                                         I)
                                                        0      /),I)

                                                        2. /.2.5
                                                                           A.0
                                                                           ,:,,o l:Z,f"
                                                                                              ()
                                                                                               ()       0
                                                                                                         ()      {)
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                         t?,,P
                                                                                                                          I)/)        CJ,()
                                                                                                                                                 tl.o
                                                                                                                                                IJ.o
                                                                                                                                                           t)        I)
                                                                                                                                                                     /}
                                                                                                                                                                              C,
                                                                                                                                                                              7
                                                                                                                                                                                        .-,p
                                                                                                                                                                                       7?
                                                                                                                                                                                                  /J.P IJ.P
                                                                                                                                                                                                 /JI)     2~.•
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I      "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /I.I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C-1,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /J /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /J,/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /'J /J

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           •'-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,, ,,
                                                                           ,.,,,                                                                          "IJ                                    /)_I)                   n      I)

I
     7-Psydlllolical          t?         ()             0        I.O                /).6      0          /)      I)       I)/}        /).()     t)I)                 0        I)        0,D               ,l,I)                         0            1'.P        I) I)

     a..-..
     9-0ther
                              t)
                              c?
                                         I)

                                         I
                                                    ()
                                                        I
                                                                ,:,,o
                                                                M>
                                                                           /}/)     UJ
                                                                                    ~~
                                                                                              0
                                                                                               0
                                                                                                        l:J
                                                                                                         /')
                                                                                                                 ()
                                                                                                                 ()
                                                                                                                          fJlJ
                                                                                                                         o. n
                                                                                                                                      /J,1)
                                                                                                                                     ,t!p
                                                                                                                                                tJ.p
                                                                                                                                                /J.O
                                                                                                                                                           ,I        ()
                                                                                                                                                                     A'
                                                                                                                                                                              I        /I.I
                                                                                                                                                                                        (),/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                  t/1' //,/
                                                                                                                                                                                                1111..r /.ill{
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         01'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I)      3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    //,,7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /J /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 "A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 t),I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           n7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           nn
                                                                                                                                                                             #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                "
                                                                           .,( 7



                                                                                                                 1 1~7,,( ;l;z,2. ld/7.                   .r                           .s:r.r                                          I( 0>,6 JJll,ti /OP,

I
         Total               1.2        II It                 Jf:O 2,;:o MP.                   7        .J.-                                                         /I.      '1                JJ,J,, 1170           I tJ      f




I         Evaluation
     II-Balloon
                                          M/fY
                                      Number               Per Cent

                                                                /)_ ti
                                                                                   Number
                                                                                                               ,Tv,/e-
                                                                                                         Per Cent               NuntJer               Per Clllt


                                                                                                                                                            1/-
                                                                                                                                                                             /J.lt-Y
                                                                                                                                                                              Number
                            Certain DotJbtlul Total Certain Doubllul Tolll Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubt~I Total ~ertain Doubllul Total Certain Doubllul Total Certain Doubllu Total Certain Olllbtful Total
                                             0          0                                      3                  3                                                   I       6- //,]
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Per Cent


                                                                                                                                                                                                  2.£ /.)., 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AJ./G()ST



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 :z.         :;z     0,0
                                                                                                                           ,.,, 0.() .sil.o
                               0                                            0.17     l?,P                /)               OA           0.()                                                                              {)                                     /J° 2 1!2


I
     l•Astrommical
     2../\ircraft
                               I
                                I        t)
                                             I          :i.
                                                        I
                                                                'f. I
                                                                'f.l
                                                                           9./ /r. ~
                                                                           ,M 'I I
                                                                                               0
                                                                                               I)
                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                         I)      0
                                                                                                                  (J
                                                                                                                           ,:/./)     /), 0
                                                                                                                                                 ().()

                                                                                                                                                 IJ.O
                                                                                                                                                           /./
                                                                                                                                                           ,J        2"      1'3
                                                                                                                                                                                 7
                                                                                                                                                                                       ,,., 7

                                                                                                                                                                                       ,, f
                                                                                                                                                                                            :Z.'3 I 31,i
                                                                                                                                                                                              I, I J'J.t/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         If 111. 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ;z           Q I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /l 2 ;,f,t,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9./ Jg;i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,.,,. on
     3-liillt Ph1110m.
     4-Binls
                               0
                               0         I
                                          ?             ?
                                                        I
                                                                P,I) '7~3

                                                                 ~-0        q/ 'I.I
                                                                                    27,3       0
                                                                                               0
                                                                                                        3
                                                                                                         /)
                                                                                                                 3'
                                                                                                                  (J
                                                                                                                           (),/) ~,./)
                                                                                                                           I),/)       n.o
                                                                                                                                                S°JJ.IJ
                                                                                                                                                  I},()     0
                                                                                                                                                             I       /)
                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                        2.1.
                                                                                                                                                                                              "·" , '
                                                                                                                                                                                        ,1.() 7,/, :2.L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /JI)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,1,()        0. ()      o.o

 I   5-Cloud~ Dus~ et~
     6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
     7-Psydlllo~cal
                               (J
                               ?
                               ,,
                                         n
                                         /')

                                         A
                                                        (?
                                                        3
                                                        /)
                                                                '""
                                                               ,., '!'
                                                                P,P
                                                                            nn i,,c
                                                                           0. 0 ;27,:J
                                                                           "-~    P.O
                                                                                               /}

                                                                                               IJ
                                                                                               ()
                                                                                                        D
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                        0        0
                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                  /)
                                                                                                                          tP,p
                                                                                                                          an
                                                                                                                          IP.O
                                                                                                                                       o.o
                                                                                                                                      /J.I)

                                                                                                                                      t.~
                                                                                                                                                 IJ I!
                                                                                                                                                 IJ.I)
                                                                                                                                                /)IJ
                                                                                                                                                            t
                                                                                                                                                            /)
                                                                                                                                                           /)
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                     CJ
                                                                                                                                                                     tJ
                                                                                                                                                                              /)


                                                                                                                                                                              c?
                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                        (J.P
                                                                                                                                                                                        n A
                                                                                                                                                                                        (),O
                                                                                                                                                                                       -,«,
                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.0 o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.1) IJ fJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                  /),0    ao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tJ.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        n

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         J!J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (), 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I//
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I'.'. 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /JI)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0. 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IJ.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            'f I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ~.o
                               I                                                  IJ. I                          0                   () /)                II         t7                                                                              /J.I)        co 0 /)
                                                                                                                  IP ,,,,,
     &-Unknown                           /J              I      QI         /J.{)               0        (?                ,?,O                  /J, /)                       /I                   P.O ::zt.:.           I)      tJ      ()



 I   9-0ther                   IJ

                               t
                                         17             0       11.P ~p             (),/)      /)       tl                            /).O      IJ.O
                                                                                                                                                            '
                                                                                                                                                                     t)          I      .2,I,     0.0 7L                0       L        2           i::/rJ    11. :J.. /Q 7


                                         ' If                 15"°~6' Jt,S';,} /0/J.                             A                                        ,2.6 /3            39 IU,7 33.~ /IJO.
         Total                                                                                3        3                 S'()p ~P.O /0().                                                                             ,JJ.      7      II           36.4 6U, ~(){)


 I                                    5t=Pr~MK£/f'
                                      Number                             Percent
                                                                                                      Ocre1 l?F.1?
                                                                                                      Number                      Nuntier
                                                                                                                                    Per Cent            Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                    .IJ,/p/,/~"4/?FK-
                                                                                                                                                                                Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DEcEM,YrR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Per Cini



 I
           Evaluation       Certain OotJbllul Total Certain Doubtful Tolll Certain Doubtful Total Certain D111bllul Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubllul Total Certain Ooul.ltfu                                               Total Certain Olllbtful Total
     ii-Balloon                              ~           3                                     !:'       'I /ti 1/.7 JP.I) JJ,.7                                I        J         6    s;o ;J.(;;t) l.;>t!P                    0            .]..     7. I        PO 7.l
      l·Asbonomical
                                0
                                0             I          I
                                                                0.0 '.17,.,; ,Jl,5
                                                                11.t 1;zS 0,J                   I        3   u .H 1/J,D /(.3                                    7        I        g'   iJ.>,O     .'JO
                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,   .. , 2.2          q       //           7.1           I ?'1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              l-:;"2
     2--Airaaft                 I             I             ;2. ,,, (' J)S , r ,                I        I)        I       ?3          /)0        ? ?        I+       (J         JJ-   ;JO,t!     0,0 ~nA               ()       I       I           0./J        36         '?.f

                                                                                                                                                                                       ·,u p"
 I   3-LightPh!IIOII.
     4-Binls
     5-Cloud~ Dust, et~
                                I)
                                ,,,
                                (J
                                          (J
                                          IJ
                                          ()
                                          ,,
                                                        0
                                                        r)

                                                        t7
                                                                11.()
                                                                 All

                                                                I.J.0
                                                                           tJ l)
                                                                           ao /J.1)
                                                                          &,O
                                                                                     ao
                                                                                    I)   0
                                                                                               I
                                                                                               I
                                                                                               D
                                                                                                         0

                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                           I      2
                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                   I       ?,3
                                                                                                                          3. 3
                                                                                                                           ao
                                                                                                                                       Ci/)
                                                                                                                                      ~.3
                                                                                                                                      o.o
                                                                                                                                                  '?3
                                                                                                                                                 £I
                                                                                                                                                 p D
                                                                                                                                                ..,.,,
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                             ()
                                                                                                                                                                      ~
                                                                                                                                                                      /)
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                               p
                                                                                                                                                                              t1
                                                                                                                                                                                        no
                                                                                                                                                                                        ;l,O
                                                                                                                                                                                                 /) ()

                                                                                                                                                                                                  CJ.I)   o,o
                                                                                                                                                                                                              00
                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /}

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     O.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     tJ.P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /),/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I')/)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  {).0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            fti_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            //,/)

                                                                                                                                                                                 I
     6-lnsuffic.lnfo.          II                       IJ      /) /)     1', l)    /J,11
                                                                                               ,,
                                                                                               ~         ()       k)    170/)          /J,O                     I     D                 !i:O      I) I)   f'.O         3'        (}      3          /11,7        I'.'./)   10.1


 I   7-Psydlllolical
     6-Unbolll
     9-0ther
                               I
                               ~
                               0
                                          0
                                         t)
                                          I
                                                        I
                                                        /J
                                                        I
                                                              112.S
                                                                I'),,
                                                                           P,O 1., ...
                                                                           /J,l)
                                                                1.0 /7,.> JJ.'i
                                                                                    Po         ?
                                                                                               ()
                                                                                                        /)
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                         I)


                                                                                                                  ,,
                                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                                   ()      "-"
                                                                                                                           £7
                                                                                                                           /J   n
                                                                                                                                      I') 0

                                                                                                                                      t1.0
                                                                                                                                      I')   n
                                                                                                                                                 P,f)

                                                                                                                                                .f. '7
                                                                                                                                                 ()/J
                                                                                                                                                            {)
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                      (J
                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                         0.{)
                                                                                                                                                                                        O.A
                                                                                                                                                                                        !,-,O
                                                                                                                                                                                                  p {)
                                                                                                                                                                                                  "/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                  P. ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                           /)O
                                                                                                                                                                                                          (J,p
                                                                                                                                                                                                          s-. IJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        t)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        "1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                tJ

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      "0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '? l I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7,/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IJ.{J

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ~o ?.21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 c:~ 1 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I)_()




 I       Total                1..        6'             ,; ;J-:o 7J-;/) /00
                                                                                             "         /3 30 §'i,:7 LM.] IPR                              I I./-      t      ~()       7at> U.o           /OD,        18"      r/)     I.Zr 61,,3 3F.7 /tJtJ




 I
 I
 I
 I
 I
                                                                                                                                    111

 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                  J,1 , I n ARV

                               Number                Percent
                                                                                            ,CEP/i'tlAli'/
                                                                                            Number            Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                         M fi;f'Cf-/
                                                                                                                                                       Number            PerCeot                    Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /l!"H'II-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I.Yf',f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
     Evaluation        Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total             ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total               ertain Doubtful Total Certain I lloublful Total Certain Doubllul Total Certain Doulllful                             roe•
!,Balloon                 £)         I       I        ao I, 7 /7                  ti-          I)     ti      2~2        p, p     2.7, J      ti          0              ti     /) 0     ao        o.o        I             ti         I ,z, r           P.P      .2,/
I-Astronomical            6        ~/)     31, li:'.2. 57)_ 'I: fl,.,             3             7    /()      /(. 7     it.9 ,;r. I.          q          /'f ;2!               ,,, <                        'ltl           I "II           O.f          2.1 l..rs.9
                                                                                                                                                                                        :J(." c.:i9
2-Aircraft                LJ.        I      s- ~-~             /. 7 'l,S"          I           0       I        ~✓
                                                                                                                         ,,,, CA              Ii'         0             ,;r /,j;,;       o. () ,s,1,            ~          ~      3         l.,IJ       (),{I     61
3-LightPhenom.
4-Biids
frClouds, Dus~ etc.
6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
                          0
                          0
                          /}
                          {)
                                     0
                                     0
                                     (}

                                     0
                                             /)
                                            /)

                                            0
                                            I')
                                                     ao
                                                     (),I!
                                                     /)/)

                                                     IJ {)
                                                              /)_ IJ
                                                              0.0
                                                              M
                                                               ,11) OP
                                                                        /)_(/

                                                                        17.n
                                                                       I!()
                                                                                  0
                                                                                  t>
                                                                                  0
                                                                                   I
                                                                                               {)
                                                                                               0
                                                                                               0
                                                                                               ()
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                       0

                                                                                                       I"
                                                                                                               rJ.()

                                                                                                              t?."
                                                                                                              tJ,P
                                                                                                              S.t.
                                                                                                                         rJA
                                                                                                                         fl A

                                                                                                                        /)_I)

                                                                                                                         0.0
                                                                                                                                   ,.n
                                                                                                                                   ,,,,
                                                                                                                                  I) r,

                                                                                                                                   ~/,
                                                                                                                                             £/


                                                                                                                                             £
                                                                                                                                              t?

                                                                                                                                             /)
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                          /:)


                                                                                                                                                         I)
                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                     J;.
                                                                                                                                                                     tJ
                                                                                                                                                                      f
                                                                                                                                                                                ,, .,
                                                                                                                                                                                /)I)


                                                                                                                                                                                ,, IJ
                                                                                                                                                                              Ill C.
                                                                                                                                                                                         ,,,., ()_I)
                                                                                                                                                                                         ()_n
                                                                                                                                                                                         tf.O
                                                                                                                                                                                         f2/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                   .,. '
                                                                                                                                                                                                   AA

                                                                                                                                                                                                  /U   s--
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,::?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           J')
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ()_(/

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            P.IJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            l,tl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /0,6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1./0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        "-"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        17.' //J,6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IJ.(/

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /)_{)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P.P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                              ,.,                                                 ,,,, 0
7-Psyct,,logical
3-Unknown
9-0ther
                         /)
                        J'.:i
                         S"
                                     0
                                     0
                                     /)
                                            0        O.o tJ.O 0.0
                                           1::2. 1'21H        ().O
                                            s- '{,5' /J.O '{,5"
                                                                       '2(/
                                                                                  0
                                                                                   I
                                                                                   I
                                                                                               I')

                                                                                               " I c;:
                                                                                               /'}
                                                                                                      Cl
                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                               IJ,O
                                                                                                              £/,
                                                                                                                  I,
                                                                                                                         ll.O o.o
                                                                                                                         On _t;t:
                                                                                                                        o. I) I:6            0
                                                                                                                                              I.
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         C}
                                                                                                                                                         I)
                                                                                                                                                                    t
                                                                                                                                                                     0

                                                                                                                                                                     ()
                                                                                                                                                                                ,.,
                                                                                                                                                                               II I.
                                                                                                                                                                               t)_I)
                                                                                                                                                                                         Ml
                                                                                                                                                                                         t?n
                                                                                                                                                                                         P.o      ,,,, Cl
                                                                                                                                                                                                  J/ /      '7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /'}



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          111,q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0. {I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ao        /J 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4tJ 1111. 'f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        {).I)    0 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
    Total              ::Z7 3.2 S-"! IAf;9 .o/f,).. /()t)                        11            7 /'ff IU.1 .70 /10                          3_? /9                 s-z 63,J, -.,,_,. /()0_ '--16 I                               11-7 Y7.9             2./ !IP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 --
                                          MA                                                        Ji;,vr                                                         ,Ti.Ii y'                                           ,;Ive; lt.5T
                                Number               Per Cent                Number                  Per Cent               NuntJer               Per Cent                Nu■ ller                                                                   Per Call
     Evaluation        Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doulllful Total Certain Ooobtful Total ~ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu                                                 Total Certain Doobtllrl Tat•
0-Balloon                  /.J.    I
                                      , Ir4-   q, 1 2"2 Ill               {     0          (   .11,p     no 11,          I      t?      I .C'Q /J,0 ~-0              0       (J                                                    {)       d. {I c),0 1,0
I-Astronomical
2•Aircraft
3-Ligl11Ph"10m.
                          G
                          0
                            1
                                      ~
                                     I)     b
                                                q
                                                    .7-MJ Ill ::,11
                                                    a.o
                                                     0,/)
                                                              ,C7
                                                              ,,,,,
                                                                        7An
                                                                        Al>
                                                                                   5'
                                                                                       J
                                                                                       /J
                                                                                                r
                                                                                                I
                                                                                                t?
                                                                                                      IP

                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                       "1
                                                                                                              :Jp,1,
                                                                                                               IL I)

                                                                                                                '/'J
                                                                                                                        20.0 ,.. 0
                                                                                                                          t,.n

                                                                                                                         /J.n
                                                                                                                                    {I>
                                                                                                                                   tJ.p
                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                               I)
                                                                                                                                                          ~
                                                                                                                                                           7

                                                                                                                                                          (')       0
                                                                                                                                                                     s--
                                                                                                                                                                        7      0,/)
                                                                                                                                                                                tJ.O
                                                                                                                                                                                17,(/
                                                                                                                                                                                        ~S':O JS.~
                                                                                                                                                                                        ~s.o :Z.S-.o
                                                                                                                                                                                          p,I)    tl. /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                               I

                                                                                                                                                                                                              ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ?",
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /{)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ·.u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I. f ~73 "" :i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /,'! 1'12. .l-1.I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.,,         4o       /)O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
4-Birds                   (/         tJ     I)        IJ,11   /) t)     dn         /)          0      (J        n~       {), 0     Q,O        I)           (        J           d.O     5:0 <;: IJ            ()       /}          p        e?,O        0,1)       ,,,
5-Clouds, Oust, etc.
6-tnsuffic.lnfo.
7-Psychological
                        //
                          0

                          I)
                                     0
                                     0
                                    (}
                                            {)
                                            (/
                                            0
                                                     /Jn

                                                    _2a4
                                                    n,ll
                                                              ,, I>    I)_/]

                                                              l!. 0 ,I/ u
                                                              /) /)     tJ.o
                                                                                   ()
                                                                                  2.
                                                                                  (
                                                                                              /)

                                                                                              0
                                                                                               0       r,
                                                                                                      ;z._
                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                               "'"
                                                                                                               yt,


                                                                                                             .. , ,,
                                                                                                              IL,,
                                                                                                                         -"
                                                                                                                         ao
                                                                                                                         /)I)
                                                                                                                                   0."0
                                                                                                                                   ~t)
                                                                                                                                   i,,I)
                                                                                                                                               CJ
                                                                                                                                               q
                                                                                                                                               /}
                                                                                                                                                         /)
                                                                                                                                                          I)
                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                    6
                                                                                                                                                                    :J'
                                                                                                                                                                   ()
                                                                                                                                                                                dA
                                                                                                                                                                              l.f.O
                                                                                                                                                                               /),/)
                                                                                                                                                                                        d. /) /Jn
                                                                                                                                                                                        P,I)
                                                                                                                                                                                        C.r;
                                                                                                                                                                                                  IS.I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                  0,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                            2
                                                                                                                                                                                                             /)


                                                                                                                                                                                                             2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (J

                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (7

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (), tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            H"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1,f'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        "-"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I} l'J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /Jn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  {/.()

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ··"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 31
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
a.unknown                h          Cl      6 J,'?.fJ_                 /]5         'I:         tJ     f"                                      z          ()         z          IP,n      P.O /P,p             I        0           (        /,C/        ao ,.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                              /11)                                                       /}_/)    ';/J {)
!I-Other                 /)          {l     /)       11;/l    /)/)      /JO        I           (J      J       JJ.n      P.o       JJ.o        I         /}         I           ~b       /),0     s-, 0     I?         /)         CJ        0,()        d/J       0. 0

    Total              36            r /1,1;' l!O,{) ZIJ.p IM. I 'I                            6     ).J 76.IJ          211.D /pa             rr 13 ]_t)                      ,,.I)     1£/J 100.            7        ur' S-,2. l3S rtG.'i I/)().




                                   5tr/"T,=H6'.C/i'                                            ,c,,,..,-~,,!c,;>                                          Nn.,, r H 6'FR                                               /Jee E.,.,..or,r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                               Number                PerCenl                   Number                Pe,COII                  Nurrtier              Per Cent                 Number                                                           Per Call
     Evaluation
0-Balloon
I-Astronomical
                       Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doulltful Total Certain llodltful Total Certain Ooobtful Total !Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doulltful Total Certain Doubtfu


                          0
                              I       C}
                                     Ii     0
                                                I   .?3.3
                                                      {)_/}
                                                              t/.0 <<,<
                                                              O,o /) ~
                                                                                       ()
                                                                                       )      ~
                                                                                                0      ti
                                                                                                       {,
                                                                                                               0 {I       170
                                                                                                              15".IJ ZO-~ 1111. 2
                                                                                                                                    AO         0
                                                                                                                                                  '7
                                                                                                                                                           .3
                                                                                                                                                         /(I        ;J. I
                                                                                                                                                                         '3     o.o
                                                                                                                                                                               '"·'
                                                                                                                                                                                         'Vi' g,f
                                                                                                                                                                                     fJ/,') 11.U
                                                                                                                                                                                                                /.I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.      r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Total Cerbin Doubtful Total

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  if
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ill.(    C.0 /#,'l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7,/.1 tr,r ,)r_q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
2-Aircraft
3-LightPbenom.
4-Birds
                          0
                          ()

                          /)
                                     /)

                                    /')

                                    /}     0
                                            0
                                            0
                                                     I)/)
                                                     // /J
                                                     1'711
                                                              /) I)

                                                              ()_fJ
                                                               l.n t},I)
                                                                        /Jn
                                                                        17.0      0
                                                                                   /}
                                                                                       I
                                                                                               0
                                                                                               J
                                                                                                I      :2
                                                                                                      /')
                                                                                                      /)
                                                                                                               '7 7
                                                                                                               t1,0
                                                                                                               /J.()
                                                                                                                          7.7
                                                                                                                         0. 0 '""
                                                                                                                         no A n
                                                                                                                               {).IJ
                                                                                                                                               /J
                                                                                                                                               (J
                                                                                                                                              /J
                                                                                                                                                           ,:;--
                                                                                                                                                           tJ
                                                                                                                                                           ()
                                                                                                                                                                     s
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                    ()
                                                                                                                                                                                fJ,0 IIJ. 7 111.7
                                                                                                                                                                                 0()
                                                                                                                                                                                ,')/)
                                                                                                                                                                                         o,b
                                                                                                                                                                                        ,,_,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                   (),{)
                                                                                                                                                                                                  /)_/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                              6
                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                              IJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           r)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,.;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .,, .2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /J,/'J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /},0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   l,O ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .  /)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,,_o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t),t)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /J.O    I
H:loud~Dust,etc.          0         r'l    I)        17 t)     /J,/J   /),/)       t7          I)     /}       ,,/)      (J,/}     (11)       ()          Cl        tJ          c.o      o." o.o              0         (?        rJ        IJ_O        /Jr       O,o
6-Jnsuffic. 1nro.        ;i..       (}      2       ~7        (),Ci    11.7 2                  {l      7      IS,/1.     /'),/)   l,.h         I         (l          I         .2,q      (J,O     -,Q         I        Cl          I        77          ,1,1)    ,', 7
7-Psyeoological
8-Unknovm
9-0ther
                         Cl
                         0
                          /J
                                    I}

                                    /J
                                    I)
                                           0
                                            /J


                                           ,?
                                                     (7.(J
                                                    /Jn
                                                    IJ,"
                                                              O,()
                                                              P.tJ
                                                              /},rJ
                                                                        /),0
                                                                        (?..I?

                                                                        /l,/J
                                                                                 3
                                                                                  I)




                                                                                   "
                                                                                               Ci
                                                                                               0
                                                                                               {)
                                                                                                      ()

                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                               IJ,O
                                                                                                             l<J.-=?/
                                                                                                               I) I)
                                                                                                                         /J,11
                                                                                                                         o.n l::H./
                                                                                                                         o.o
                                                                                                                                   /J,/l



                                                                                                                                   17,r,
                                                                                                                                             ii
                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                              tJ         17
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                    ()
                                                                                                                                                                    ti-
                                                                                                                                                                    n
                                                                                                                                                                                1),0

                                                                                                                                                                               /1.fi
                                                                                                                                                                                I fl
                                                                                                                                                                                         /)


                                                                                                                                                                                         ,, /l
                                                                                                                                                                                              , n.lJ
                                                                                                                                                                                         /)_1',
                                                                                                                                                                                                  II. fl
                                                                                                                                                                                                   o.n
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             h
                                                                                                                                                                                                             3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                       tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   J;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I).(}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ·n2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       :;, I I I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ai,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,,,., ).2 .2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        lln
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0,0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 II.I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
    Total               3
                                   "3               /P{).b    Oo /10,             t            i- n          6IS        ?'(S /{)()          /;l.        ;;22       311- 7~, 611.7 /Pl                      ;i._;i..    )         l..17 !f/) ft,,;- 110
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                        112
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
I
I
I
                                                               E/,9t.l//10eflll(

                                             ;,,,, -~J'c/                                            C,:A     .,/IAI                                         M     •neH                                         AP,P/L
                                  r.imbef               Per Cent                        Number                PerOl!nt                        Number                PerCeat                 Nu-                   Per Cell
         Evaluation       certain Doubttul Total Certain DoubHul Total           ertain Doubtful Total Certain DoubHul Tola!           ertain Doubttul Total Certain Doublful Total Certain Doubllul Total eert,,n DoubHul Toi•


I   II-Balloon
    1-Asbanolllical          Q
                              /J
                                       5
                                        0       ,')    n/l      o.~ ·-,11
                                              J 3 I.lb. I ?1.3 ,srii
                                                                o.o ,o,;
                                                                                   3
                                                                                    ~        0
                                                                                            If
                                                                                                       3
                                                                                                        7 q_l
                                                                                                              q_/        o.b 'I I I 3
                                                                                                                       ,;i..l ll.l </
                                                                                                                       o.t; lltl        ,1.
                                                                                                                                                   3
                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                   J/
                                                                                                                                                            lb It)
                                                                                                                                                            <j 11. I
                                                                                                                                                                            '/.l .l,1,3
                                                                                                                                                                            6.0 11.1
                                                                                                                                                                            5., ll.3
                                                                                                                                                                                               i/
                                                                                                                                                                                                I.
                                                                                                                                                                                                    J    D
                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                I J.1-/
                                                                                                                                                                                                               'I tJ.<I
                                                                                                                                                                                                        " 0t. Jt,.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0./J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /1./J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3)-J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IJ.(/'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                lJ. JI 'lo.?
                                                                                   '
    2-Airtraft               ?          0       2 IIJ.5                                     l)         {. li.1                                             JI,     JI,.'/
    3-Liglll Ph"10m.          0         0             O.o       c,_/) 0.0                   0          0 o.o           (J.~    o.o       0         0         lJ     lJ.{)   MJ        O.b       ~       /I             lJ.6     ().0     IJ.{)


I
                                               C,                                   0
    4-Bints                             (>     I>     O.IJ      (J_{)   o.O         0       ()         0   O.D         ().{)   o.o       0         0         I)     {).IJ   O.lJ      t,.{)     0       {)      IJ     lJ.6     /J.lJ0/J
                             "/J                                        o.o                                            "-~     o.D       ()                 lJ llll          0.f> ob           /J                      ().{)    tJ.b 0,/J
    S-Clouds, Dus~ elc.
    6-lnsvffic.lnfo.           I
                                        /)
                                        6
                                               0      0.1>
                                                I !i. 3
                                                                l>.0
                                                                o.l> 5-3
                                                                                   "
                                                                                  II
                                                                                            0
                                                                                            0
                                                                                                       0 ().{)
                                                                                                      II ln.3          /J.O 1\:f.~ 1'3
                                                                                                                                                   6
                                                                                                                                                   (')     13 1'1'.I        ().0 t'l.l         i'
                                                                                                                                                                                                        lJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                        ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                               "l 17. ~         O,l) ).'l. In
    7-Psydmlogical                      ()                      O.Pl    o.o        0        0                 0.0      i?.~ ().{)
                                                                                                                                       ,,,
                                                                                                                                         0         C>        ()     o./J    (). {)    d/J       I       ~      I :H             /).l) VJ

I
                              0                                                                        fl
                                                0 "·"
    S.Unlmo..                 .1        0       2. 10 .Ii       {)_{j 10.,;        :5       0         3       '1-1 O.~ 'l. l                       l)      15 1,11,&        11.D ::i.oj        q        ~      9 3/.b           /J.lJ 131 0
    !I-OlhOI                   I       ()          I 5.?        0.0 5. ~           3        0          3      'I.I 11.D 1.,              (}        I/       'I      ().b    -<., 5.b            /J      ,1     ()      0.0      ().() IJ.{)


                                              I 'I ?3.'I ,1',.3 1100. ;...q                '-I 3?             a1.'I JJ...I 16/J, 61               I I      7.J. 'jl{.'} ,1.3 1/()4. 1.'I                ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ~"-
I                                      5
        Total               I J{                                                                                                                                                                              'J9 /00. {)       {)_{)




I        Evaluation
                                    Number
                                                Mou
                                                       Percent                 Number
                                                                                           JVNE
                                                                                                     Per Cent               Nuntier              Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                Jv,_..,
                                                                                                                                                                         Number
                          Certain OoubHul Total Certain IJoubHul Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain OoobHul Tola! Certain OoubHul Total Certain DoubHul Total Certain IJoul,Hu
                                                                                                                                                                                                               /11/Gt/S r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Tola! Certain OoubHul Tolll


                                        " .3I/                                                                                                                                                           • ,,
    II-Balloon                ~                       X.b       ,1.4 /-5.0         .5        ()         ,; #.-9         ti.I -rl.1/       I         IJ       I      >lJ       ().4 '/,],        .2.      tJ    .2, 9.J 11.IJ l'.i
                                                                                                                                          7                  7 J~.l,
I
    1-Asbonomical            .2.       .2             1/).IJ It),{) 2/).J)          (>       0         ()     IJ.4     t?.d tJ.d                     /)                      AA      19 ...     /                 ~J :JY. /) :Jf /J
    2-Aircraft               I)        ()       0 A./J tJ.() 4,()                    ()      /J        /J     M        .,,.,
                                                                                                                               A./J      I/            I    ~ I ,t,_ 'l >-/. l 1->A,f          ?'        I    5 li.tJ "I,/) :ZIJ.4
    3-LiglllPhenom.          t)        0        ()        ./J 4.f)
                                                      {)./)    I}                   ()       /)         "     JJ.()     P.1 A.4          tJ         ()       ()     ().0    tJ.tJ -o. t        ()        IJ     ,!     /J.J     tJ.IJ     d.lJ

                                                                                                                                         ,,"                                         ,u
    4-Bints                   ()       0       (> /i,A ~./) /i. tJ
                                                                                   "         ()         /)    I}.~     '1.d JJ                      IJ       IJ     1)4     ,J.IJ               /)       /)     4       d/J     IJ.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ad 1.J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          11.J


I                                                                                                                                                                                                                       M
    S-Cloud~ Dus~ etc.        0        0       () ,1./J 11.IJ tH                    ()       ()         d tJ.I /J. I d.d                             tJ      ()     ,J.()   tJ.6 P,()           IJ      IJ     ,1
    6-lnsuffic.•lnfo.        -2.       IJ      .2, IIA,/J      ~- t1 'IA./)         /)        ()       I)     4.0      d.J d,/)           7         IJ        'I 29.J. 44 1.2.f..Z              J._     IJ     ,.2.$.I          /J.iJ 1.G
                             ()         (}         ,J~ {),() tJ.d                            I)        ~ 0             .J,J    .,1.4                         J IJ./) tJ.4 A.d                                  4 t:J.4           cJ.J /). IJ
    )-Psychological
    8-Unknown                1'       0        "
                                               t' .UAlJ IJ./J 1/J.J
                                                                                   /}
                                                                                   :),       /J
                                                                                                              ,., d./J tJ.d J
                                                                                                       :l-11.f.4'      (J.J 11_1'4'
                                                                                                                                         I}
                                                                                                                                         ~
                                                                                                                                                    A
                                                                                                                                                    {)       ,v /~., ()_j 1/J.7
                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                               'i"'
                                                                                                                                                                                                        /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,!     ff 31.d           tJ.4 V..4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ~"
I                                              ~ 4./J 15.J /.( ()
                             ()
    !I-Olher                          3                                            ()        ()        /J                                           I)      I)      tJ.d     t).I) itJ. tJ     I        ,1     I/      ,y.i)     0./)


        Total              H          ?      ~o 75,() 111;'.IJ -'dd.              7         0         7 /Mt,           ,1.() v.?i.     :),3        I M' 95.'j' ,r.,z, I#.                     /'i       7     »       1,l..t) L).i.d l,JIIJ.




I                                 Number
                                         SEP (£"11!/EP
                                                       Percent                 Number
                                                                                       Oe ~t11;P
                                                                                                    Per Cent                Nunter
                                                                                                                                   lv'ClVEMl1E~
                                                                                                                                                  Per Cent-              Number
                                                                                                                                                                               DEC/£ ,._,,,_E,e_
                                                                                                                                                                                             PerCfflt



I
         Evaluation       Certain OoubHul Total Certain Doubttul Total Certain DoubHul Total Certain Oooblful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain DoubHul Total Certain Ooubtfu Total Certam Ooublful Total
    0-Balloon                  .d       IJ      0      M         o.o     tuJ           I      /)        I    Jt)./)     tJ./J 10.0        /)       2        2       4.d       f:7 1.7           ,7.     4      I,       t., 11.9 ,q,1-/
     I-Astronomical          ..5        ~      ;;- 315          tJ.0 l-:i1.5.       I            I     ;     1()() /IJ.o 'ld.0            ()       0        tJ      J.J      {)./)    0.tJ     /.d      7 11 ,,n :u., 'i'f_q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .u
    2~Aircraft                :;_
                                       "       ,,2., /5."J      l,_i) /5.J/         ,I\       I        I      tJ.iJ 14,tJ /A.d           :i.        'i' ;/)         £ti ~f.v' 'I.U             I        ()     I        3.1     t,_{)



I   3·Ligl11Ph8"m.
    4-Binls
    S-Clouds, Dus~ etc.
    6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
                              0
                              IJ
                              ()
                             .3        a
                                        ()
                                       ()
                                       I')
                                                Z)
                                                I)
                                                I)
                                                i' 13./
                                                       hJ
                                                       JJ.t)
                                                       /).0
                                                                0./) t).0
                                                                 ///J
                                                                d.0 tJ.f)
                                                                         /}_I)

                                                                tJ.() I:i.3. I
                                                                                    6
                                                                                    ,,
                                                                                    0
                                                                                    0
                                                                                             ()
                                                                                             (J
                                                                                             ()
                                                                                             I)
                                                                                                       6
                                                                                                       /)


                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                        ()
                                                                                                              /J./J tJ.o d.4
                                                                                                              O/) (). tJ U;
                                                                                                              ,H /?, 4 d.b
                                                                                                               tJ.I)   11.()   tJ.IJ
                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                         tJ
                                                                                                                                          t1
                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                    IJ
                                                                                                                                                    t)
                                                                                                                                                    t)
                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                            tJ
                                                                                                                                                             /)
                                                                                                                                                            (J
                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                    M
                                                                                                                                                                    rM
                                                                                                                                                                         t!.d IJ.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                         lb !.~
                                                                                                                                                                    ,1.0 J.o d.4
                                                                                                                                                                    1/.3 tJ.tJ 'r'-3
                                                                                                                                                                                               d
                                                                                                                                                                                                /}
                                                                                                                                                                                                J
                                                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                                                        IJ

                                                                                                                                                                                                         tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                               I)


                                                                                                                                                                                                         " IJ ,1.d0
                                                                                                                                                                                                               ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ().b
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3.2.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /'J.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /) ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /J/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          O.D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          o.D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /Jll 3 . .l


I                                                                A.A tJ.b                    a                                                                      0.0      11.4 tJ. 0         3        I    3         C/.'l
    7-Psychological           t)       0        /)  tJ.~                            0                  {)     ().C     tJ.0 tJ.b          0         tJ      /)                                                                   /J/1     'l.1
    8-Unkno_,                 3        ()      3 JJ.J            tJ~ 13. I          I,       /J        ' ,o.o ,1.,,;
                                                                                                              tf-"b {,IH                  r         d       9 l.?9./         ,,J.t) I?'!./     2        I     .2,       ,.s      on t..5
    9-0tller
                             "         (J      0       O.l      {).()   ().IJ      0         I)        /)     11./'J           o-b       I
                                                                                                                                                   " I J/.J                  (J.tJ   'i.J       I       ()     I        3.l      /)_()

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,i.5 ~.5 110.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3..2.



I       Tolll             13           ()     1J VIJO.o         0.4 l()J,          1       ,2.        /tJ    1/J.{) '1.A.IJ /IJd.      /3         J,1 ;L3         $-5 ~J.5 1./IP, -Z.IJ II 3/




I
I
I
I
I                                                                                                                      113

I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                          1if4t.E 69
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
!        Enhahon
i0-8all(l1)fl
·J-A.stronomical
                             .L
                                    -  .2.
                                       4-
                                         JAN(!/. bl

                          Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total



                              I
                                                <r 7.4 7.4 Ii-~
                                                 5
                                                        -i>erCent



                                                         3.? #.~ il1.S
                                                                                      I
                                                                                     ()
                                                                                              -
                                                                                              I)
                                                                                              2.
                                                                                                   ~E .,,_,,ev



                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                          z.
                                                                                                                Per Cent


                                                                                                                 1.7        a.b 6.7
                                                                                                                 1./J l.?J 1?3
                                                                                                                                      Number
                                                                                                                                               M/iRi!#



                                                                                                                                                   /J
                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                           Per Cent


                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         ?
                                                                                                                                                                                {).()
                                                                                                                                                                                          APRIL



                                                                                                                                                                                           ().{)
                                                                                                                                                                               1',.7 /1,.1 133.4
                                                                                                                                                                                               ,,.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                       PerCent


                                                                                                                                                                                                    II.~     l>
                                                                                                                                                                                                            t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -
                                                                                   ertain Doubtful Total Certain Docmdul Total ~rtain Docmdul Total Certain Doobtful Total Certli• DooWul Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        o.£
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       {).O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  O.ll
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  l),l)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OJJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            o.t       I
    2-Aucraft                17        .:i..     1_      I)/)     7-4 1.4            /I       ?            ?     J\/l )/),b l21JA                 /J           I         I     O.l
                                                                                                                                                                                         ''
                                                                                                                                                                                                                I      0          I 133.3         o.o 33.3
                                                                                                                                                                                          0.01 o.O
il-Ltl!hl Phenom.
4-Bards
$-Clouds. Dusl, etc.
    6-lnsuffit. ~fD.
                             /l
                             ()
                             5
                              ()        /)

                                        /)

                                        0
                                        0
                                                 t)
                                                 ()

                                                 0
                                                5 11?.5
                                                         0.{)
                                                         o./J
                                                         o.tl
                                                                  o.o ()./)
                                                                  I)./]
                                                                  tJ.(J
                                                                  ().()
                                                                           o./J
                                                                           {J_(J
                                                                           J</5
                                                                                     t)
                                                                                     /I
                                                                                     /l
                                                                                     0
                                                                                              0
                                                                                              /)

                                                                                              0
                                                                                              ()
                                                                                                          ()
                                                                                                          ()
                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                          ()
                                                                                                                 o.D
                                                                                                                 o.o
                                                                                                                 o.o
                                                                                                                 /J.i:l
                                                                                                                        olJ ,./
                                                                                                                            1)./J
                                                                                                                           ().{)
                                                                                                                           /J.D O.()
                                                                                                                                      o.lJ
                                                                                                                                      o.lJ
                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                  ()
                                                                                                                                                  I)
                                                                                                                                                  ()
                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                              I\
                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                              I)
                                                                                                                                                                        I)
                                                                                                                                                                        ()
                                                                                                                                                                        I)
                                                                                                                                                                         I)
                                                                                                                                                                               ll/J
                                                                                                                                                                               ().0
                                                                                                                                                                               tJ.{)
                                                                                                                                                                                J\J\
                                                                                                                                                                                           D.O 0./J
                                                                                                                                                                                           .1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                    o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                    {).1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,")
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OJ)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       O.C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.. ,,. 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6.t'l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <O.ti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Al'I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       o.o


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ().l'I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             c.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,1,.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
    7-Psydl>~~cal
    8-IJnknoUI
    !1-0lller
                             0
                           / I)

                              I        0
                                        0
                                        0
                                                 0
                                                /{)


                                                  '
                                                         O.()     0./J d.O
                                                        37. / ().lJ 37.J
                                                         J.7 0. lJ 3.?
                                                                                     /l
                                                                                     7
                                                                                     1
                                                                                              ,1
                                                                                              t)


                                                                                              "
                                                                                                          0      Ill


                                                                                                          2 /33 IJ.0 133
                                                                                                                           0.{) fl.()
                                                                                                          7 4-1,.7 ().0 'd.L.1
                                                                                                                                                  {)
                                                                                                                                                  ~
                                                                                                                                                 I)
                                                                                                                                                              C,
                                                                                                                                                             I?
                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                        0 11.1)
                                                                                                                                                                        3~o.c
                                                                                                                                                                        0      ().1)
                                                                                                                                                                                          azJ       0./)
                                                                                                                                                                                          ().1) 1,0.D
                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0 0./)
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       c::,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I')
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0 0.0 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,?.l)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       o.D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 o.o D.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  o.o 0./)            I
        Totl!l            1'1          "l .:Z.7 711,4 IJ..t:t.l, ld/J. /tJ                    6          /', 66-7         33-3 /,1/).            4           ~          6 1,1,.? 33.:3 '(JO.                3          0        3 100.0           llO      ,ac.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
          Enluation
    0-Bdloon                 2
                                  Number


                                        0
                                               MIN


                                                 2
                                                       Per Cent
                          Certain Doubtful Tobi Certain Docmtfu I Total Certain Docmtful Total Certain Doobtful Total
                                                        ,ft)./)    /J. r A✓l.ll
                                                                                N.-


                                                                                     /l       0
                                                                                                          J fll'.C
                                                                                                      Per Cent

                                                                                                           0     IJ.lJ      o.o /J.D
                                                                                                                                               Lmuiin


                                                                                                                                                     /I
                                                                                                                                                          - - -- -
                                                                                                                                                          Dou!Jtlul Total Certain
                                                                                                                                                              IJ
                                                                                                                                                                         Ji Lu


                                                                                                                                                                         t)     lJ./l
                                                                                                                                                                                        Perc..t

                                                                                                                                                                                            ,,, ,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Total

                                                                                                                                                                                                                '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    llaller


                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A,1r,u<r

                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PerC..t

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5./J 5./J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Doublllt. Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Jt,.b
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
    1-Astronoaieal
    2•Aiftflft
    Hidltl'll<nom.
                             I)


                              0
                               I
                                         0

                                         "0
                                                 ~
                                                  I ~11.0
                                                 {')
                                                         IJ./)

                                                         D.lJ
                                                                   ()JJ    IJ.lJ
                                                                  ll./l 1"11l./l
                                                                  I)_!)    !J.l)
                                                                                      0

                                                                                      (J  '
                                                                                              ()
                                                                                              0
                                                                                              a
                                                                                                           () r..l
                                                                                                            I :inn.~
                                                                                                           ()    0./J
                                                                                                                            .. ..,
                                                                                                                            llfl


                                                                                                                            ri?J
                                                                                                                                 /J.D
                                                                                                                                     110.1 0

                                                                                                                                       A.l         ll
                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                             .2
                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                         3 11.1

                                                                                                                                                                         lJ
                                                                                                                                                                             I 1\,1
                                                                                                                                                                                 /\ft
                                                                                                                                                                                         :u.:i ~;I_~
                                                                                                                                                                                           OJ)
                                                                                                                                                                                           fl.~
                                                                                                                                                                                                    11.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                     o.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                             ()


                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0     o.i> ll.lJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I s;.o          I).~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 _? 10.D 5./J l(.l)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,J.{)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ~.IJ     I
    4-llirds                  0           I        I o./J tw.a I 1/l 11               lJ      ~            0      IJ.~      r,r,       IJ.0        0          l'J        6      0./J       ,1/1     o.o      0          0        ()  ll.!) o.{) /),{}
    ~Cloud~ Dus~ etc
    6-lrtSUffic.. Info.
    1-Psycholoeical
                             6
                              (')



                             ()
                                        0
                                        0
                                        0
                                                 t'.)

                                                 0
                                                 I)
                                                         O.l
                                                         O.l
                                                         /l.~
                                                                  II

                                                                  ,.,,,
                                                                  /I ft
                                                                       A I) l)
                                                                           /J.D
                                                                           IJ,0      "
                                                                                      l'I


                                                                                      ti
                                                                                              0
                                                                                              0
                                                                                              0
                                                                                                          ll

                                                                                                          ~
                                                                                                           D
                                                                                                                 l'l.!
                                                                                                                 o.a mo tJ.l t),.,
                                                                                                                 ,,,,
                                                                                                                           n,r,


                                                                                                                      /)I) 0.{J
                                                                                                                                       /J.f       n          a
                                                                                                                                                             ,')

                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                         fl
                                                                                                                                                                         ll
                                                                                                                                                                                0.£
                                                                                                                                                                              o.D
                                                                                                                                                                                           Al\

                                                                                                                                                                                           ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0  3
                                                                                                                                                                          I D.O • II .1 11-1 ll
                                                                                                                                                                                                ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0     0          I)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0 /J.D .1. /J O.lJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 l)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       u:.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0,()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,o ¥:().1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ()J! /5.J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t1.tJ 1).0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
    a.11n1<no..               I
                                        "         I 1,11.0 n.o 111). fl
                                                                                      "       n           t'J    lJ.l      /J.b O.l               3          ()          .3';33.l O.lJ i/33 10                          n                         O.lJ 150.lJ


'
    !1-0i!lfl


        Total
                             ()


                             4
                                        ()


                                         I
                                                 0 o.o o.o O.tJ

                                                5 io.o ~.tJ ,oa.
                                                                                     0

                                                                                      I
                                                                                              0

                                                                                              0
                                                                                                          {J


                                                                                                           I oo.,
                                                                                                                 11,        /Jl


                                                                                                                            O.,b /00.
                                                                                                                                       O.G


                                                                                                                                                  6
                                                                                                                                                   I          0

                                                                                                                                                             8 C
                                                                                                                                                                          I 11.1 ,, ' 11.1

                                                                                                                                                                         Cf ,,.? 33.~ 100.
                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0         I    S,D

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .2. :u, 9d.o ltJ.tJ J()/J.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   o.~ 5.D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
I Evaluation
    0-Balloon
    1-Astron:,mical           1
                               I
                                        5G PrE!-7.(/E,t
                                    N1111bor


                                         0
                                          I
                                                  I
                                                 4 /{,.?
                                                          ~,
                                                          Per Cent
                          Ccrt.iiin DoubtfuI Total Cettain Docmtlll Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total !Certain Dool>tlul Total Certain

                                                                   /J.O 5.{,
                                                                   r;,L n.1
                                                                                     ;z
                                                                                     q
                                                                                              -D
                                                                                                         OerotrG1t!
                                                                                                        PorCent


                                                                                                           .2.   1I
                                                                                                          /() l_-u./
                                                                                                                             o.o 7./
                                                                                                                             3.1 _{'i.7            ~
                                                                                                                                                     fl
                                                                                                                                                          -.. -
                                                                                                                                                         PerC..t



                                                                                                                                                              5
                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                      11/orE,..,,,E~


                                                                                                                                                                         I       ().l
                                                                                                                                                                        /3 4-1./J )9.q 1,4
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Total Certain Dowtfu Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                                            ,,_q 5-'I
                                                                                                                                                                                                             z
                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Number

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IJL41-H,t/E~



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I r./
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PerC..t



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3 Ji.l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ().() 9./
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9.1 l'l.J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
    2•Aircraft                 I         0         I     5.t       o.() !,.,         4        2   '        "r'f.3           7,/ 11.q              1            ()        2 //.,; /J,l JJ.'I                 4           ,1       4 3t..4-          ().0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -~'o.o-"
    3-Light Phmom.
    4-Bnds
    I-Cloud~ Dus~ etc
                              0
                              0
                              0
                                         I)

                                         0
                                         C,
                                                 6
                                                  l)


                                                  0
                                                         t).0
                                                         ()./)
                                                          l).i)
                                                                   0.0 /l.D
                                                                   /).{)
                                                                  OD
                                                                           0.0
                                                                           ll.O
                                                                                      /l
                                                                                      /)

                                                                                      ✓'I
                                                                                              /l
                                                                                              /l
                                                                                                  /\
                                                                                                           {)

                                                                                                           ll
                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                 /l.()
                                                                                                                 l).l
                                                                                                                 /},fl
                                                                                                                              01,
                                                                                                                            O.d
                                                                                                                             Aa /J.l
                                                                                                                                        D.l
                                                                                                                                       o.o
                                                                                                                                                  ()
                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                     ()
                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                              t}
                                                                                                                                                               ()
                                                                                                                                                                         D o.() IJ,O 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                         /l ().0
                                                                                                                                                                         /J ().()
                                                                                                                                                                                           o.!J O.D
                                                                                                                                                                                           ()I)     o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                              (J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 {)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1).0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1).0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ().{)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   dt) 0.D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   11.IJ o.£
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                           o.o 5-'1
                                                        -~
    6-lrtSUffic.lnlo.         2          0       2 //. I          0./) II. I         I')      ti           ,1    o.O        (J.ij 0.0                I        tJ          I    ~-~                              I       0         I    V           ().I)
    7-Psycbological
    8-Unkno,.,
    9-0thcr
                              0
                              5?
                              :i,
                                         c)
                                         0
                                         C,
                                                 ~
                                                  t)


                                                 .z. 11./
                                                         D.0      110 0.fl
                                                                  ll.0 ~.4-
                                                                  0./l ,1.1
                                                                                     C)
                                                                                      q
                                                                                      I
                                                                                              l'l


                                                                                              0
                                                                                                  l'.I
                                                                                                           0 0.0
                                                                                                           q 32.I
                                                                                                           I 3.(,,
                                                                                                                            tJ./J 0.0
                                                                                                                            IJ.T) n.1
                                                                                                                            ().{)      3.b
                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                  I)
                                                                                                                                                  ()
                                                                                                                                                              ()
                                                                                                                                                              ()
                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         0 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                        tJ 0.1)
                                                                                                                                                                               tJ.{)       ().o t},0
                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                           (),/)    o.o      ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I 9./
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '(./

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       o.n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ()J)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /).()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1),4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            q.J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            9-/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (),4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
        Tola                l'l          I      If} l9<M 5.I, 100.                 ;L.5       3 2fl ~.J ltl.? /{)O.                              I/          6 I 'I {If.? l3S.3 Jl)(J.                      /0          I II 't/.9 9.1 /4{).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                          114
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
I
I
I
I   ,__
          Ewaluation
    10.Bolloon
    'l-Astn,ranical
                                   I
                                 .a-
                                        - J/ltvV/41!.V




                                           A
                                                     I
                                                    <)
                                                          fterCent
                            Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                            ,,              L.7       IJ,O
                                                          JJ.,? 2,.? !,3.4
                                                                               I..?
                                                                                       ertain Doubtful Total Certain llou!Jlful Tola!


                                                                                         4
                                                                                          I
                                                                                                   FE llRV.QRu
                                                                                              Nl'1\ber


                                                                                                   ()
                                                                                                    )
                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                    Pe,Cf!llt


                                                                                                                  5.&
                                                                                                                   i:.I. n~
                                                                                                           ( 1'.l.'.l
                                                                                                                          ,;I.
                                                                                                                            /J./J                3
                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                     Number


                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                         t,
                                                                                                                                                                MAJ!'{!;./




                                                                                                                                                                   4 1/./
                                                                                                                                                                   I     "f.1
                                                                                                                                                                             Percent


                                                                                                                                                                                 3.? 14l
                                                                                                                                                                                 Ml
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Number
                                                                                                                                             Certain llou!Jlful Total Certain lloublful Total Certain lloublful Total Certain Ooublful Total


                                                                                                                                                                                         ~, 3     Ii
                                                                                                                                                                                                          3
                                                                                                                                                                                                          II
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AP,elL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '~"' ,,a<-~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /(/    /7.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             POICent


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .l~ s~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     n.o rt.Ji
    l2-A1rcrlft                   n         t)      0     IJ.()       /j,O     /1/)
                                                                                          :2.      1       4 II.I 11. I nJ                       ."3     :z        .r; //./      '1.4 l'l.~       IS      SJ                         ,.fl .Jl~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     n.b /.0
I
    !J.L•ihl Ph""•·                IJ      t)       /'J    (),{)      ,ii)     t,,()      ,1       ()      (J     /J.{)    n.o      tJ./)       6        0         II   IJ.O •   n.D     h.~       I      II       I      /.{)
    4•Birds                        h        0       II     O/J        1)./)    All        II       II      II     11.~      /U      IJ.()        I       0         I    -,.,7    ll.0    :I.?      3       )     4-      2,q          ,.o 3_q
    $-Clouds, OusL et~             0        IJ      (l     ().O       11/J     11-b      /)        t1      ti     t,_!J     DJ      IJ./J        t,       I        )     OlJ     3-'l 3,1          0      0       0      o.()        {J,()    tJ.0
     6-lnsuffic.-.a,.             ti        /)      fl     0.6        /j/J     0.6        I        r,       I     t;,i      .l).d   ,;,,         I       II         I   ::!.9    ().()   3.7      I~      II     IO      q_7          tJ.()   q,'J
                                           ,.,
I                                                                                                                 M         n.J o.o             0                                0.0 IJ,0                                 /.()       n4
    7-Psydmlo&ical                2                !l. J1.3           O411.H              /J       (')     0                                             ll        0     OJ)                       I      0        I                       1.0
    1-UNrno•                      :l        /)      .2 133             tJ.(J J3.3        5         /J      ~     A~~         AA ... o           4        0        4     ,~.8     tJ.() ~         -~8      0     ~ll     3J,.<f       0.6 31._q
                                                                                                                                                         q
    ~llr..                         ?        II     :J     13.3         d.4 )3.3          2.
                                                                                                   "       2.    JI,/       /JJ J/./


                                                                                                                           ,u )00·
                                                                                                                                                 I                JI)   -~-'1 Jj.J 3?.o            2.     0      2       ,,q         IJ,0 1,q



I        Total                   JI        4      15 ?33 ~-? /40,                       15         1      IS 13.3                              /4-     13        "J-7 51.g 4~-"l.. /OtJ,         'I I    12. 103 ~L'.4 II. i, 1100,




I   I Evaluation
                                            M11v
                                        Number                     Per Cent
                            Certain Doublful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certin Dr,rblfrrl Tola!

                                            ~                         H }1,.9
                                                                                  Number


                                                                                        ~~
                                                                                                         J1.tA1£
                                                                                                       PerCmt


                                                                                                                                     ,a:i. 'l'i
                                                                                                                                                      Nudler
                                                                                                                                                                  Jv1..v
                                                                                                                                                                            Per Cent

                                                                                                                                                                                 ,~
                                                                                                                                                                                                     NuobOI
                                                                                                                                              ertain lloublful Total Certain Doublful Total Cerfllin Ooutrlfu

                                                                                                                                                                                                  ~~     41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                JJ11,;,vsr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PerCent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Total Cerfllin llflrblful Total
                                 i,;               l'I /'1.3
                                                                                                   '              1q$        3.4                        54 14:l. 11-"3                                           71       'I.I
     0-Balloon                                                                                            ?,2.                                                                           li.2                                        /0-3 l't4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,1
I                                                                                                                           q_? 13,3 qq                                                                                              U, n.4
                                           1..                         t.<i             l~        ,,, 4-1                                                    /33 11-1 43 /1.D 43                         :i.,
                                 '" 0 3            I~ 1'1.2
     I-Astronomic.al                                                           Jl,j                               1;i.l,                                "14.                                                             111.g
     2-Aircrift
     3-Lr&fll Ptlenom.
                                 l'l
                                  3
                                          ll..    ,1q 15.0
                                                           ].7
                                                                     It,./,
                                                                      0.0
                                                                               JS.I  1'
                                                                               .z.,1 I
                                                                                                  ,2 31? I'll
                                                                                                   0   I o.t
                                                                                                                            1..t 21., /2.3
                                                                                                                            DJ o., /2,
                                                                                                                                                       'i/f 2.1 I I~., /1-3 J7./J <J-5
                                                                                                                                                         q.       ,, ... ·' ,
                                                                                                                                                                   1.5       1.6 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                         43 1?/l
                                                                                                                                                                                                          6 II
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         11.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     lb.f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              "1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              J.,i
     4-Birds                      0         0       D      tJ.0       tJ.0     o.D I\              n        /J  IJ.0        {)J 0.0     4                 I    5         .I ..      0                     0       ()     0.0         IJ.{J     o.O

I    $-Cloud~ DusL et~
     ► lnsuffic.lnlt>.

     7-Psycholoaical
                                  I?

                                  0
                                   b
                                            0
                                            0
                                           ()
                                                   11

                                                   0
                                                    {.,
                                                           7.1
                                                           t;3
                                                           0.0
                                                                       o.o 7,/
                                                                       tJ.0
                                                                      o./J
                                                                                S:3
                                                                               0,0
                                                                                          0
                                                                                        11)

                                                                                          4
                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                   {)

                                                                                                   /J
                                                                                                            0 o./J
                                                                                                          -,/1 11.4-

                                                                                                       4 .2J
                                                                                                                            4J {),b 4
                                                                                                                            tl.0 11.4 70
                                                                                                                             t).b 2-3    'I
                                                                                                                                                          I    5 .5      ./ -~ 0
                                                                                                                                                         6 71J '1.0 o.o 'l.O 35
                                                                                                                                                         i, /5 /.l .I? 7.-6         I?
                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                           lJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                35
                                                                                                                                                                                                                'I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I      0/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          111
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '.J.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ().0    $?.\?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,3 :2.-3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .3

    18-Unlrno_,
                                ='l I      11     '.10    17,7 o.o l'J.?                ~3         0  33 1rt.P               II.() /\?.~     1'3         I\ I £3 'U>f o.(J ).0.i '13                       /)   H         ~           O.IJ !.2.3.4


I   9-0lher


        Total
                                                  10       l1.0 o.q ~A                    l,        I  7 3.4                (),I,   4.()       JI

                                <\4 ,q 11.~ i3.l ,,.? 100. 140 86 17, 79,1, UJ.4 /()4. 5'13 li'I 782.. 75.'l ;l't.;l. IOd. l-74 1;1..3 39? ,9,7 "3/.3 JOO,
                                                                                                                                                          I      :u. l.'I        .I      2.ri      q      5      14-      t~          J.3 34




I   ' Evaluation            '       Number
                                          5EPTGHA<=~
                                                           Per Cent                Nu•r
                                                                                                         Oe-roBER
                                                                                                         PerCmt                  Nuntier
                                                                                                                                                              A/AVEMdE,e
                                                                                                                                                       Per Cent                 Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                           /Je:eGM/.1£12.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Per Cent



I    0-Bllloon                    a        ti     15       ~5          ,~
                            Certain 0Olrbtful Total Certain Ood>lful Total Certain Ood>lful Total Certain Doubtful Tola! Certain Doublful Total Certain Doublful Total Cerfllin Doublfu


                                                                       ,u /9)..
                                                                               9-3       i        /2 21) g,'I               Fl./ ;JJ.8          z         'I       II      ~I.   13.~    ''-4       /J    3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Total Certain llflrblful Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3       M +.I..              4-;6
     l•Asbonomical               22         q     ,3/     RL
                                                           ,.z .:u.=<. }$.'f
                                                             .,
                                                                                        13        10 ~3 it/./
                                                                                                  n IB 5tf
                                                                                                                            }/\,q   )5/J        5
                                                                                                                                                 .,       ~       13     '1.(    ti-~ /9.4        II      'I     u l'-7 /3.I, '.10.'\
     2-Aimaft                    /0       "2.L.   4t                                      5                                Jtl-:/ /f.5                    3        I,    <I:~
                                                                                                                                                                                  ,.~
                                                                                                                                                                                 4:~     </,/)     I      ,1 /4-          /.5 11'1. 7 2./.2.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          u 1.4
I    l·Liahl Ptumm.
     4-Birds
     S-Clouds, Oust. etc.
                                  I

                                  0
                                   I
                                           -z
                                            z
                                            I
                                                3
                                                   3
                                                    .(.
                                                I /\.()
                                                                      1-2
                                                                       /.)_
                                                                      tJ6
                                                                                I~
                                                                                1-~
                                                                               ().,
                                                                                         4"
                                                                                          ,1
                                                                                                  4
                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                      4 ()4
                                                                                                          .5 .,._3
                                                                                                           I o.iJ
                                                                                                           ..,. "1,3
                                                                                                                           4:"3 4-3
                                                                                                                           /. I 54-
                                                                                                                            /./ /.I
                                                                                                                                                 2.
                                                                                                                                                 ()
                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                          g
                                                                                                                                                            I      3
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                   'J
                                                                                                                                                                           ~-0
                                                                                                                                                                         t).()
                                                                                                                                                                         n.()
                                                                                                                                                                                   Q.l
                                                                                                                                                                                         4-.~
                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                 11.q ,1.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                   d
                                                                                                                                                                                                   {)
                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                           /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                           /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (J.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,1.()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    n6 ,1_"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0

     6-lnsuff1c.Mfo.             /2         0 /2 7,4                  ~{)      7.4       q         0                        d.()    4-3         4-        6        a     '-/J
                                                                                                                                                                                         ,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                  /).IJ '!)        3       f)     3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ""·'       11.6 4-.,

I    7-Psydoolo~cal
     8-Unkno'MI
    9--0ther
                                  I
                                4-Z.
                                  {_,
                                            0   I o.,
                                            0 4-2 ZS.'!
                                            2      g       H
                                                                       t).()


                                                                       IJ.
                                                                               ()./.
                                                                      t).tJ 11.J:.'1
                                                                               'f.q
                                                                                          0
                                                                                         14
                                                                                         2-
                                                                                                   IJ
                                                                                                   /)
                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                          ff 15.Z
                                                                                                          3
                                                                                                            ~ .()/)


                                                                                                                 -z.:2
                                                                                                                            t'-/J    /),/)
                                                                                                                            ().{) 15.2.
                                                                                                                            I. I    3.3
                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                19
                                                                                                                                                 2
                                                                                                                                                          i?
                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                          0        z
                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                  I'!
                                                                                                                                                                          1.5
                                                                                                                                                                        '),Q~
                                                                                                                                                                           3,1
                                                                                                                                                                                 t'-0
                                                                                                                                                                                 4() .d-4
                                                                                                                                                                                 M       3/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ;a
                                                                                                                                                                                                   3
                                                                                                                                                                                                    t)     l
                                                                                                                                                                                                           tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                           IJ     3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ~ R4-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         o.o         n.t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    d.tJ 133.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4.~ A./J "I':'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0




I        Total                  'l'l 63 lb2 o,// 3'/.'I IM.                            50       4-2- 'fZ 5'1-ft- 14:5.1, /{».                  3~      z.9       ,1 s-,.'J 4-83 1()/). .f-/ :z..s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ''      I,}../ 37.'I /t/1),




I
I
I
I
I
                                                                                                                           115
I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    #tL          l/£,f.{'S

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
        Ew11111boo
0-S,llooa                      '?
                                    T ,AAIIIA If t'
                                    ~mbef


                                          2    t;
                                      IB 31 Jl 2 ns '19. 7
                                                             Per Cent


                                                     -n 7 'i 6.3 i
                                                                               Number
                                                                                       ~F"/P/1.



                                                                                            0
                                                                                                         RV
                                                                                                     PerC,ol

                                                                                                  7 JO.'! 0 O /0. 'f
                                                                                                                               Nu-


                                                                                                                                       i
                                                                                                                                                jl//,1;;,-~
                                                                                                                                                      PerCenl


                                                                                                                                               2 /() 7.5 /.'I 1.'I        7
                                                                                                                                                                                                    -
                         Certain 0oubl1ul Total Certain Doubtful Total ~ertain Doublful Tola! Corlain lloublful Tola! L:ertain lloublful Tolal Certain Doublllll Tola! Certain Daublllll Tolal Cerlaia
                                                                                                                                                                                                      A.PK/.(...
                                                                                                                                                                                                       PerCenl


                                                                                                                                                                                                         3 IO 'f. '1             -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2- I 7 .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           J.. I 20.'f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Tai~


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
!l•AstKNIOllical
I
                          1./
                            C          3 9 7.5 3 ~ II- 3
                                                                                  II    I, 1' 11.1 13.5 '10.7 /(
                                                                                         5 /l 1,,. 'I 1.8 I//J. 1 I :l.                                 ,,
                                                                                                                                             12 27 /'1.( /1.1 H.2 'JI,
                                                                                                                                               7       lf.2 ,.s 11.1 13
                                                                                                                                                                                                         3 21 ;g. 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1, · 2 If. 'I 21. I
                                                                                                                                                                                                              "
!2-Aucrlft                                                                         7                                                                                                                     7
3-L•Chl Pbenom.             0          0 0 a.o (/. 0 0.0                          0      0 0 o.o 0.0 n n n                                          Q  0. O 0. O o.o      I                               0      I 0.7 o.o P.7

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                         0 0 0-0 o.o 0.0                                                                             .u

      _
4-Buds                      0          0 0 0 I Q.0 o.o                             0                                1                          0    :l 2.8 0. 0          I-/-.                           I     5   1.g 0.7 3,}
S-.Clouds, Dust, etc.       0          0  0 p 0 0 0 e.o                            0        0     0      o.o        0-0        0.0      n      I    I 0.0 o. 'I o.q      0                            0        0    0.0 o.o ().0
i-lnsuffic. ~fo.            B          p       B /0. 0 0 0    /00                  3         0    :,     if. 7   o. 0         'f. 7   IS       0 / 'S / lf.O /J.11 /4.0 1(                           0        11    l'f.8 o.o /If. 'I
..                         2           0 -i                                                 /)                  o.o o. 0                               0.0 o.u <).0 2                                                /. II /).0 /.II

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
    7-f'sydlalo~cal                                  25 0 0 ~-5                   0               0       0 .0                         :)      0    9                                                0          ~
                           /1          0 II          13.8 o.o 11. B               'I        a 'I         If/. I o. 0 /4./             /7       0 11 1,r.,, o.o /H 42                                 (J       ',Ii 2'1.6 o.o ~9.6
                                                                                                         tD-1 0.0 ti.If                                                                                          l /. '-I        u
                                               '     ,.1 f.:,            7-S
!1-Qllle,                   )          I                                          7         0     7                                    I     I 'f Jr; 0-'! /3.J f/f.O 2                              /)                         /,#

                         re 11.f              iO no             JO. 0 ,,o.              2n ''I l,i.'d J/. 3 /00. 1/
       Talol                                                                     1/9
                                                                                                                                             "          IO 7 {,'-'f 3H /00. 12.B I 'f I 'f2 90./ 'I. 'f 100.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
I
         Evaluation
                                    Number
                                          ~/Ar
                                                              Per Cent                 Nu-
                                                                                                 .TvA/E"
                                                                                                                  PerCenl
                         Cerbin Oooblful Total Certain lloublful Tolal Certain lloomlful Talal Certain Doublful Tnlal
                                                                                                                                             Nulmer
                                                                                                                                                        Tv Y
                                                                                                                                                                   PerCenl                  Nllllber
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Av"usr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PerCent
                                                                                                                                      ertain Doublful Tola! Certain Daublful Tatol Certaiu llDdJllu Tola! Certain Daublld Tatol                         I
    0-Bollooa             ,g
                                     ,,
                                      5    2J I 2.0 3J IS. 2'f 6
                                          '3 I /5. 3 5.3 10.1, 25' 2/
                                                                                                  n I 'I.           J. Q /7.j         'll If 8 I 1/0 //. 'f (. 1. Ii.I 1f f1 $ I
                                                                                                                                             "~If /i?I'll J. ,o.s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         f.7       '7'.11.   /I,/
                         2,3                                                                             OA 10.1/- 21.8 /n4                                        'f S.7 /'/.I 41                  ( If fl I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
    l•Astronomical                                                                                                                                              I                                                       /17,.    /#_3 --u,'{
    2~Airaatt
    3-Lipll'II..,.,.
                         18
                            3
                                     IS J1 1/J.O /0,0 no Jo /J
                                      :t. 5 '1.o '-1 13 I          I
                                                                                                 "',.,l'f.'! ~-5' 2/.'f 10,
                                                                                                   2. o.S 0.5 /. 0 I If                            If
                                                                                                                                                                /1.7
                                                                                                                                                         ,e I. R 0.5 J...3
                                                                                                                                                                          ).J(-.2 'Ill
                                                                                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                                                                                                    '31 8'
                                                                                                                                                                                                     7         II/-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        M.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I.£
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /.1,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I f/2.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ??
    4-Binls                  0         < 2 o. 0 /. 3 / 3 0            0                             0 o.O 0. 0 0.0        J                     3           ~
                                                                                                                                                          o. JJ .9
                                                                                                                                                                0. /f                        0       0           D       t1.O      0.l         ,:).t;

                                                                                                    0 u o.O o.o                                                                                                          ,,,,
    ~Cloud~ Dus~ el~
    6-lnsuff1c.lnfo.
    7-Psydlolo&ical
8-Unkno111
                            7
                          :/.:7
                                0
                                      0
                                      0
                                       0
                                        0   l I.'!, 0. 0 /. J 0
                                              ;J.1
                                                0
                                                     /'l.7
                                                     o.o O.o o.o
                                              2.3 15.J 0.0 /J: 3 1.1
                                                                    ()
                                                                o.o l'/.7 13

                                                                                   '
                                                                                            0
                                                                                            (l
                                                                                            ()
                                                                                                  13 1/. 'f 0-0 111-'f '-J(

                                                                                                   '   3.0 o.o J.o 'I
                                                                                                  JS 1$.'I o.o /6!1
                                                                                                                           I                    I :i. 0-1 o. I . l
                                                                                                                                                0 8/ /0.~ o. 0 /0-~
                                                                                                                                                8 17 /.-;/ I .0 1.-l I 0
                                                                                                                                                o I'll /f/.R o.o 19.8 117
                                                                                                                                                                                             Cl
                                                                                                                                                                                            'I].      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                         I

                                                                                                                                                                                                          I II
                                                                                                                                                                                                              II')._


                                                                                                                                                                                                         0 81 11/J;.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '!.JI-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        !l.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IJ.Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    tJ.n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   n::i.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              f/,JJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              :v1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                          ''7                                                                                                         ''"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /lA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I'-"
9-0lher


       Tolol             J/6
                                       ;z

                                     JI/
                                               '!

                                              ISO
                                                     'f.7 /.3

                                                     77-3 n.1 /00.
                                                                         t.o       7        I

                                                                                 ,r, '12 :lo/
                                                                                                   a .1 s o.s
                                                                                                         7f.1
                                                                                                                         ;_,
                                                                                                                              "· 0
                                                                                                                                                 / J 0 J.1 o. I 3.8 II

                                                                                                                   -;o.r 110 'iS85 J'/0 1·75 7S.5 ;Jlf S /,0. :m /S'S ¥91 Pf.I 35:,Z /1711,
                                                                                                                                                                                                        5'    I(,       .2-.~      I I J. s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
I
         Evaluation
    0-Bolloon
    1-Astronoaical        10
                                 5Fl'TE"rl5'ER
                                    Number



                                     I(       'f I
                                                       Per Cent


                                                       3./
                                                     ls:6
                                                                  ,/Q

                                                                         ?l,:J
                                                                                       -
                                                                                   Oc-n •,FR
                         Certain Daubllul Tolal Certain l)o,mlfuI Tola! Certain Doublful Tnlal Certain Doublful Tnlal
                           &         13       11
                                                                  ,., "~ J;a I f1 Ill,
                                                                                  20 0  I'1.2. 1~6 (
                                                                                       /.!i.V
                                                                                                      PerCenl


                                                                                                       12 17
                                                                                                   2t; I'/ /13
                                                                                                         /g'_J/
                                                                                                                                            -
                                                                                                                                            J,/,,,.,,H VEJ:?
                                                                                                                                                   ..
                                                                                                                                      ertain Doublful Total Certain llatmllul Tata! Certai• llaublfu Tola! Certain Doubtful Tola!
                                                                                                                                                    lf-7 'f. 'I
                                                                                                                              " :n S2I 2. J:J.Rl-f. /8.1
                                                                                                               " I.S-.t /P-' 29
                                                                                                                              ,-,,3
                                                                                                                                                                   Per Cent



                                                                                                                                                                ,21).fl
                                                                                                                                                                            //)./}
                                                                                                                                                                                 ~S:i
                                                                                                                                                                                            Nuober
                                                                                                                                                                                                    o~ce-., 6'rR


                                                                                                                                                                                                    (,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Per Cent


                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       'IO.'f           I
    2-Airtraft            n          JI '/ If          n        I, I     ,,.,Q
                                                                                 I 4   I <'      ')',     ,( ~      //),?_ 17 /)       II       I       If           ~~      6., /.>.9       8      12        ,a,,      u         9.11 1.5:JJ-
                                                                                                  ~                                                                          ,u 3..J                 q                           o.o 0.8
                                      2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                3
    3-Liplf'II-.            I                         IJ,5         11.   I.S      I         4              /J.7      17 3,11
                                                                                                                                        , I If
                                                                                                                                        ~                           .2<                      I                 I        O.H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 o.o o. 0

      _
                                      1         3                                 :;              'f                                                                                                                    0. 0
    4-Binls                I
                           0
                                                      1'.5
                                                       nn
                                                                  10 IS
                                                                   '" ,.,_ ..
                                                                                            i             I.A-        /.JJ    2.'I
                                                                                                                                       n
                                                                                                                                              ()         ()         P.O       0.0     /JJ    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    "          I)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Q.0 o.o
    Hloucl~ Dusi, e1t.
    6-lftsuffic.-.lD.     Jo          0
                                       I
                                              20
                                                I
                                                     ,,,_,.        /In   /J7L<
                                                                                   0
                                                                                 I()
                                                                                            I
                                                                                            p I0
                                                                                                   I       /).i
                                                                                                          I.II
                                                                                                                      /),)
                                                                                                                      IJ.(J
                                                                                                                               IJ.7
                                                                                                                               i.ff    7
                                                                                                                                               2
                                                                                                                                               0        7
                                                                                                                                                         2          IJ.{)
                                                                                                                                                                    f:i
                                                                                                                                                                             1,7
                                                                                                                                                                              IJ,i ni
                                                                                                                                                                                     1.,
                                                                                                                                                                                             q
                                                                                                                                                                                              IJ    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    ()_
                                                                                                                                                                                                               " o.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                f7. / o.o 7./
..  7-Psydlolo&ical


!I-OIiier
                           3
                         t;]
                               B      3
                                       0
                                       /)
                                               3
                                              L/7
                                               //
                                                      II,
                                                     1'17
                                                      ,. ?
                                                                  A,0
                                                                  nn
                                                                  /6 S:B
                                                                          /,I.
                                                                         1Jf.?   ~I
                                                                                   I


                                                                                   ~
                                                                                            0
                                                                                            0
                                                                                            I
                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                  3/
                                                                                                  If
                                                                                                           t?.7
                                                                                                         7(/
                                                                                                          :11'
                                                                                                                      /Jn

                                                                                                                      On ,t.t./
                                                                                                                     /?7 2.7
                                                                                                                               11,7    I
                                                                                                                                      11
                                                                                                                                       ~      0
                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                               0        23
                                                                                                                                                        ~
                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                /1/.2
                                                                                                                                                                     /XI


                                                                                                                                                                    ..f.3
                                                                                                                                                                             /J.P
                                                                                                                                                                             P.P /~1
                                                                                                                                                                             0.1)
                                                                                                                                                                                     t?,f


                                                                                                                                                                                     J.3
                                                                                                                                                                                              ~

                                                                                                                                                                                             ,2.1
                                                                                                                                                                                              N
                                                                                                                                                                                                    p

                                                                                                                                                                                                    A
                                                                                                                                                                                                     (I
                                                                                                                                                                                                               2 f.6' o.o J.h
                                                                                                                                                                                                              13 18.I D.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                               8 6-3 o.o ,.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,,.,       I
       Tatol             11'1 '3 If :J.. £'7.:i. 32.9' IM                        't 3 fll- l'17 6.7.3 3,{,7 IN. 7 'f 'I I                               120 -oS:i 3/1-.,2. 111a 81. 4/                        rn ,1.1 :n.3 IQO.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                  116
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
I
I
I   ! Evaluation
                                      ~l AN'<JA,e v
                                    Number                         Per Cent             Number
                                                                                                M:A,eo.1- ~v
                                                                                                                       Per Cent                Nudter
                                                                                                                                                       M, •=c_.LI
                                                                                                                                                                      Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                         At>~,L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Per Call
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Total Certain Doubtful Total
                            Certain Doublfu I Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubllu I Total Certain D111bllul Total              ertain Doubtfu I Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu



I   0-Balloon
        l-Aslnllloln1ul
    2•Aircraft                                                                                                          ho.
                                                                                                                                                                    _. I\.
                                                                                                                                                                          b,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .
    Hiah1Ph810m.
                                                                                                                   A    I                                                                                                  /4,.

I       4-Birds
        ~Cloud' Dus~ et~
        6-lnsutfit.lnfo.                         .
                                                         ,Y,.
                                                         V
                                                             '\
                                                                                                     {\
                                                                                                              i..V\
                                                                                                              IY
                                                                                                                                                       ,\'\
                                                                                                                                                                1-., \"
                                                                                                                                                                  )J
                                                                                                                                                                                                         ."
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .v--
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    l\,l

        7-Psycholo1ical                       , ,\J                                             11.i.                                                 ~                                                  1~--

I       8-Unknot11
    9-0ther
                                                                                                                                                                                                          \.




    I


I
            Total




I             EVllu,tion
        0-Balloon
        1-AsbDrmical
                                    -           n,t...,,

                                                                   Per Cent       Number


                                                                                    I           0
                                                                                                     ToNr
                                                                                                        Per Cent

                                                                                                        , 7,7 P.P 1.1
                            Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total


                                                                                0                I      I      ~.o 7,7 1.7 1
                                                                                                                                               Nud>er               Per Call
                                                                                                                                        ertain DoubHul Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu



                                                                                                                                        '        0
                                                                                                                                                 3
                                                                                                                                                      ,Tv, ~


                                                                                                                                                        C IJ.O IU IJ.O 0
                                                                                                                                                        $' L/,J c., /().8 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Av~11:rr
                                                                                                                                                                                            Number

                                                                                                                                                                                                ]I
                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Total Certain Doubtful Total


                                                                                                                                                                                                          ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Per Call


                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (),0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     18,2 'I. I 27.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.0 1),0

I       2-Aircraft
        3-Liahl 1'11810"-
        4-Birds
                                                           .i '
                                                         lb..'
                                                                                2
                                                                                    0
                                                                                    g
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                        'l.    Jf.'f 0.1 If.~ 0
                                                                                                               o.o o.o 0. 9 I
                                                                                                0 0,0 g. (/ O.fl (}
                                                                                                                                                 :l
                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                 ()
                                                                                                                                                        ~
                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                           1).0 Lf.3 'I,.?, 0
                                                                                                                                                           ].2 0, 0 2.2 ()
                                                                                                                                                                 0,0 o. 0 o.o           /I
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                 /l
                                                                                                                                                                                                71        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Q.Q P,p o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      n.o o.n o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      O.P               o.o  ().0
        ~Clouds, Dus~ et~                                                           0           (}
                                                                                                0  o,o O.I) O·O 0                               (}      0        o.o 0,0 1).0           0        0        0           ()./j             0.0 !l.0

I
                                                     " l'
                                                                                             0 3 1J./ /). 0 2}.J 6                                               no o.o IJ.O                                                            u JI.~
        6-lnsuffic.-.fa.
        7-Psydlolo~cat
                                       ..., r-  V
                                                                                    3
                                                                                    I        0 I 7'7 /J.O 7.7 /}
                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                2        '
                                                                                                                                                         :i.     o.o l.f.3 1/.J
                                                                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                          ~          19, i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      o.o            0,/) O,f;
        1-Unlalo•                         \                                     If           0 If J0.8 o.o J0.8 q                               0       Cf       J'f.6 0.0 If.{,        6        0 (,                f'f r; d. q HJ
                                                                                                  7,7 U- d 7,7 l'.i                                     15 37.6           o. 0 l.u:Z        0
I
        !1-()11,e,                                                                  I        0 I                                                0                                                    0   0            I!,{} 0. /} 0,/J

             Total                                                             12               I    13 '!J,1 7.7 /IP.                  3'1      7      'f6 8'1./J /.S,l QO.           /0           I      II 'lo. 'I '1. I                   //JO.



I   I Evaluation
                                     'i'EPrFMBrH
                                    Nuaber                 Percent
                                                                                        Crro
                                                                                    Nwnber                Per Cent
                                                                                                                   --                _,¼. .• - ..., - -
                                                                                                                                   Nud>er                Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                  h£e-.1"'7"trF/1'
                                                                                                                                                                                 Number               PerCmt
                            Certain Dotrblful Total Certain Doubtfu I Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Dotrblful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu Total Certain Doublful Total


I       0-Balloon
        1-Astnnllical
        2-Aircran
                              0
                               I
                              ()
                                       0
                                       0
                                       0
                                                    0
                                                    I
                                                    0
                                                         o.o o.o oe 0
                                                         1,.1 0.0 !C,1 fl
                                                         o.o o.o     l),p 0              0
                                                                                          0
                                                                                          ::l
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                        10
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                               0.0
                                                                                                               /,/.5 11.'f U.'!
                                                                                                                o.o 0 ., o.o
                                                                                                                            o.o   0,0     0

                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                0

                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         :l..
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                  n.o 0,1)      P.I)
                                                                                                                                                                 33,3 3J.J (,t,{,
                                                                                                                                                                   0.0    o.o   u
                                                                                                                                                                                        0

                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                         i;
                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                           I{

                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             p        0- 0 O.P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /dQ.O /J. p /()(),()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0 o. 0 0,P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    tJ.p



                                                                                                                o.o p.' IQ                                       3J.J o. 0 33.1         0                             o.o o. O l?.O
I
        3-LiahtPh-.           0        0            ()    0.0 0.0 0.0 0                  0              ()                                I     0         I                                     0          0
        I-Birds                0       0         D        Q.O n.o o.o 0                  0              0       o.0 A./J 0.0              0     0        0         0,1n.P O.d           0       n              /)     o.o O·O P.P
        Hloud~ Du~ el~         0       0         0        o.o 0.0 (}.() 0                0              0  o.o o,o ()I)                   0     0        0        o.o o.O 0.1,          0       0            ()        d.O          O· 0       to
        6-lnsuffic. •ID.        I      0            I    II,. 1 0 0 /6,1 0               a              () o.o o.o 0.0                   0      (J       0       o.o O.d M.0 11                 I)         0           P.P          d· 0       O.P
                                                 I i&.7 o.o ,t.7                I        0                  7.7 o.o 7-7                  0                       o.o O,tJ a.o 0                                                     0 .o

I
        7-Psycholo&ical        I      0                                                                 I                                       0        0                                      0          /J          0.0                     P.n
                              .4       0         3 so.o o.o ro.o               ~         0              ~ 15. If (),() !Pl               0      0        0       o.o r,,o o.n 0                 0          ()          o.P O·O
        1-Unkno•
        !I-Olller              ,      0          0           o.o
                                                        0,0 o.o                 0        0              0 o.o ()./) n.~                  0      p        0 oo 0 0               0,0     /)      0          I)          q.P          o.n        "'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ().f)


                                      0                              n.o ,100, 11                    13 8'f.l, IS. 'I 100.               2       I               ,,.; JJ.:; 1, a,.      0                  s {uv.o o.o /OP.
I
                                                          /00.1                           'l.                                                            3
             Total

                              '                  b                                                                                                                                              0




I
I
I
I
I                                                                                                                      117

I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /f{(B'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
      Enlaalion
,!,Balloon                     0
                                 ltlmbel
                          Certan Douttful Total Certain O..btful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total J,;ertain Doubtful Total Certain O..btful Total Ceftain Doubtful Total certain Doubtful Tot~
                                               0
                                                  TA,,
                                                       Per Cent

                                                          I)
                                                                     oy



                                                                    Q. 0
                                                                               NU!llber

                                                                             o.o o.o           0
                                                                                                     Percent




                                                                                                         .t.
                                                                                                            tJ
                                                                                                              F£D~
                                                                                                                               Nu-


                                                                                                                    0 0 fl 0-17 IJ.IJ
                                                                                                                                      ""~
                                                                                                                                                     Per c.nt

                                                                                                                                                       I)       I)
                                                                                                                                                                     ,A-:t,.,. i,-#


                                                                                                                                                                           /J 0.tJ         P.O
                                                                                                                                                                                  n~ o.o 72,
                                                                                                                                                                                                  u
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Percem

                                                                                                                                                                                                           2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ~p.    /t,.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                              J 'NII Q. /J 20.Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              'l 0.9 2U 1#,(J                I
                              t                                     f0.0 15.0 1{.0                                 5' ?Q.0 'fP.O /OP.P
                                                          "
    l•Aslninom1cal                             3                                               ::l                                                      "J       0        ;/                               0
    2•Aircraft                 0               0          (/         o.o o.o o. tJ             0         0         tJ  0 II        tJ.o
                                                                                                                                       "" (),0          0        0        0 1.0            o.o 0,0         :3           ()     3    3q,&     Q.0 3M
                                                                                                                                                                                   g_p     n.n                                 0 au          u.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
I
il-L1atit Phenom.              ,;              (J         (}         /}. () I. P g,g            0        0         0         11,/J
                                                                                                                                       -"               0       I}        0                       A./1     ()        0                                Q,I
    4-Buds                      II             ()         ()        0./)     o.o o.o            a        0         a         II d      /),/)    ().0   I)       0         0        d.0     (J.(J ,, /)     I         ()        I !U          O.Q      /A.O
1   ~Clouds, Oust. etc.        u               /}         (J        o.o      0,1}     0.0       0         0        .o         il.d     IJ,d     I!.~   ,,        fl       ~        qp      0,0 ""           0        (/       0 o.d           IJ,d     u
    6-lnsuffit. ~lo.                           (J         :J.       It. 1 O.Q /1.7             a          0        0          a.II
                                                                                                                              ,,,,
                                                                                                                                       /7,0
                                                                                                                                                "·~    1        (}        l J2.:I.         O,P 1,-,,z.     I         ()        I II.I         O.d 10,0
    7-PsydDlo~cal
    1-Unkno•
    '-01111<
                                  0
                                  ~
                                    0
                                               /}
                                               n
                                               I
                                                          /)
                                                          (}

                                                           I
                                                                    IJ.O
                                                                    t?.P
                                                                     ,, n
                                                                             tJ.O
                                                                             (),()
                                                                             8.3 9.J
                                                                                      t),0
                                                                                      /'J,(J   0
                                                                                                0
                                                                                               t)
                                                                                                        11
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                         /)        0
                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                   g
                                                                                                                               (),l
                                                                                                                              ,,., "·"
                                                                                                                                       b/J
                                                                                                                                        ,,.,,
                                                                                                                                   ().p (),1
                                                                                                                                                ".     0
                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                        ()
                                                                                                                                                                ()
                                                                                                                                                                 (J
                                                                                                                                                                 'I
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                          Jf
                                                                                                                                                                                   o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                  /J./
                                                                                                                                                                                   o,o
                                                                                                                                                                                           o.o    Q./)

                                                                                                                                                                                            0 0 Ill
                                                                                                                                                                                          lflf.lf DIM,     II
                                                                                                                                                                                                               n
                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (/ ~-0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I /1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0     00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              O,d o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              u 1,0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              iJ.tJ 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
        Tolll                  8              'f          u u.1 JJ.3 I/JO,                     3        2          5         l.tl.o 1//1./J    /AA,    ~        If        'I {f,6 lflf.~ Ill. 8                     ~        /()    go,o 'JP. 0 /UV,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
i
I Evaluation
                             (}
                                  Number

                                      0 0
                                         H-Av
                                                        Per Cent

                                                                  Q.Qo.o o.o')
                                                                                Number
                                                                                          •¼tVE'
                                                                                                       PerCenl

                                                                                             1 ~- 00 u.1 '-f
                                                                                                                               Nullmer

                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                       ,Tu,.,-
                                                                                                                                                     Pe, Cerri


                                                                                                                                               l'l.8 3. 7 lf.5 (J
                                                                                                                                                                                 .4 &~sr
                                                                                                                                                                             Number


                                                                                                                                                                                2 :i o.d
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Per Cerri
                          Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Dollltful Total Certain Doublrul Total ~ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doublfu Total Certain Doubtful T~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             70.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                          '
    II-Balloon                                                                      (}                                                                                                                      2P.&
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     z 'f 7P.O 'lP.O 'fl O
    1-AsbonDllical
    2-Airmft
    Hill1IPlr11m.
    ~Birds
                                  I
                                  I
                                  0
                                    0
                                                (}
                                                  2
                                                    I


                                                    I
                                                               J /0. p I 0. 0 ZP.O

                                                               z
                                                                I 1/0 o.o /0.P
                                                                  o.O 10.0 UP
                                                               I Q.0 I d.P /0.0
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                I}
                                                                                                I
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                          (/
                                                                                                              /}
                                                                                                              g
                                                                                                              q
                                                                                                                       n P.o
                                                                                                                       1 o.o
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                        0     P.d


                                                                                                                              Q,O
                                                                                                                                       11.d
                                                                                                                                       d.Q
                                                                                                                                       q,q
                                                                                                                                       u Q.O
                                                                                                                                               o.o
                                                                                                                                               0 I
                                                                                                                                               0.,
                                                                                                                                                       l.f
                                                                                                                                                       'f
                                                                                                                                                        (
                                                                                                                                                         Q
                                                                                                                                                                 'I
                                                                                                                                                                 2
                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                          $ 11/.R II/. fJ lf.r.
                                                                                                                                                                          (,
                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                  111.B
                                                                                                                                                                                   3,7
                                                                                                                                                                                   Q.O
                                                                                                                                                                                           1-11- n2
                                                                                                                                                                                            o.o J.7
                                                                                                                                                                                           J. 7   3.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                           '2
                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2 /0. 0 IJ. p 10.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               a o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Q.Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,. 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (I. d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       o.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      n.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
    5-Cloud' Dus~ etc
    6-lrmffic. mto.
    l•PsydDlo~cal
                                  0
                                    ~
                                    0           0
                                                    ()
                                                    n      3
                                                               0 0.0 o.a
                                                               0 Q.Q
                                                                    no 00 JQ.(J
                                                                    ,o.o
                                                                             gO o.o
                                                                             0 Q ,o.o
                                                                                      Q.O
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                 //
                                                                                                    I    0

                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                          n
                                                                                                                    q
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                        I 31.3 Q.d '31.3
                                                                                                                              v.o Q.I
                                                                                                                              0.0
                                                                                                                              ao
                                                                                                                                       /l Q     ,. ,
                                                                                                                                               Q.4
                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                        (}
                                                                                                                                                        I)
                                                                                                                                                                 (/
                                                                                                                                                                 ()
                                                                                                                                                                 ()
                                                                                                                                                                          (l

                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                          ~
                                                                                                                                                                                   0.'
                                                                                                                                                                                   0.'
                                                                                                                                                                                   d,Q
                                                                                                                                                                                           0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                           ,. 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                  o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                           o.o ,. 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,. 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    {P-0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0,A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              o.o o. Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              o.o JP. 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              o. , q,I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,.,    I
    8-UnknoMI                         I        0               I                                11       0          0                  0,4     O.Q     s        (}        .5      If. 5 0./J      ,i. 5    0         (J              O.Q



'
    '-Other


        Total                  i;
                                    0           0
                                               If
                                                          ti        0,0

                                                          ,o tq.o 'fl.O 100.
                                                                             0,0 0.0

                                                                                               J
                                                                                                {)      ()


                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                   0

                                                                                                                       '.3
                                                                                                                              qp       P.d o.o
                                                                                                                             mo Q.0 m. /'I
                                                                                                                                                            (    0         I       3. 7 o. I

                                                                                                                                                                8 27 10.'; Jf.(, 100.
                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                          'f
                                                                                                                                                                                                               0     I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     <,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.Q     ,o. 0 10.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1/0.0 tl.O Ill.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
    ~-            •-   ·- -


                                      Nuobel
                                            --.::,~ D ; .


                                                            PeJCent
                                                                    -,,..rRr-,/?
                                                                                    Nu-
                                                                                                        /'.?e '"
                                                                                                          PerCst
                                                                                                                             •F.R
                                                                                                                                  Nud>er
                                                                                                                                                                #t>VF <,IFA'
                                                                                                                                                         Per Cent                Number               PerCmt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0-Fc.JE·,._,,r,,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
         Evaluation
    c,11111 ...
    J.A-ical
                              Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tolal Certain Doubtful Tola! ~ertain Doul>lful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu Total Certain Doubtful Tola
                                  ()
                                      (}
                                                 ~ l}.0 33.J 113
                                                    '2.
                                                      I         I    0.0
                                                                                 3
                                                                             /1.7 /(,,]
                                                                              o., ,,.,
                                                                                        'j
                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                            !f.O
                                                                                                              3
                                                                                                                       t J!.O
                                                                                                                    JQ,p
                                                                                                                        L/ .5,0 1!,0 20.0
                                                                                                                        I 5.0 0./)      0
                                                                                                                                              3

                                                                                                                                                r.
                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                       ...,
                                                                                                                                                                 :2
                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                   /7.            r. I/ II.I
                                                                                                                                                                           8 'I//. 2 .5. f 'f'l,/
                                                                                                                                                                           If :?.i'.5 0. 0 2:a.<
                                                                                                                                                                                                           2
                                                                                                                                                                                                               J    3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               < 8.J o.o 8.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    l?.J 33.3 1/./.t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              f.l JJ. 2.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
    2•Aircrafl                        I             (J          I   //,.7                           I         0                                        If
                                                                                                                                                                 "                         u u
                                                                                                                                                                                                           0                         0,0
    Hidlt Plr-.
    I-Birds
    5-Cloud' Dust, etc             11
                                      0
                                        0      0
                                                  II
                                                  rl
                                                          ./3
                                                          {)

                                                           0
                                                                     o. q
                                                                     /1,/1
                                                                     /l.O
                                                                              11.0
                                                                              /1,/)
                                                                              t,.O 11.a
                                                                                       O.Q
                                                                                       ao
                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                 ()           0
                                                                                                               Q
                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                        I ,5.0 n,11 5.Q
                                                                                                                        1 ,J. 0 LO tM
                                                                                                                        0     Q,0 0 0          o.o     0
                                                                                                                                                        a
                                                                                                                                                        11
                                                                                                                                                                 q
                                                                                                                                                                ()
                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                           p
                                                                                                                                                                          ()
                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                   0,0
                                                                                                                                                                                   o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                            O·f o.l
                                                                                                                                                                                            (),0 0, /}
                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                           (I
                                                                                                                                                                                                               I}    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              p 0.0 O·d Ar,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0 o., l},Q d~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0 4.1 0,0 IJ.P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
    6-lnsuffic. ■fD.              0           I            I)         A.A
                                                                             •"·" o.o           If           (}     If io.oo. /} :;.q.q                 I        0    ~.r     I     1      0,0 J,9                   (}       3 17.~ 11.11 /;l,S
    l•Psytlrolosical
    1-Unlolowo
    '-Olhel
                                  I
                                   ()
                                    0
                                              ()


                                                  I
                                                   rl
                                                           "
                                                            I /1,.7 o .I ,,.1
                                                               u o.o I.I
                                                           I Q.O /C-7 lb-7
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                'l
                                                                                                /)
                                                                                                            ()
                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                            0      0
                                                                                                                       o.o o.o O.I
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                    1 /0.0 o.d IJ0,0
                                                                                                                              o.o 0,0          o-O
                                                                                                                                                       n
                                                                                                                                                        II
                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                 {l
                                                                                                                                                                 a a a.o 1.8 /}. /} t
                                                                                                                                                                 11
                                                                                                                                                                      o.a D

                                                                                                                                                                    I 5Jf oo S.'f :}
                                                                                                                                                                                     0     o.lJ /).I}                   (J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0 0.0 n,I) IO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              r, ?r, 0 Q.d 'ZS.'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2 Q, 3 /).d (. 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
        Tcrlll                  ~              L;         y         JJ.3 1,£,i /Id, 13                   1         'JP r,5.0 H.O /QIJ. I 'f                     3 / 7 8:/.j 11.~ flt. /S                             'f '2'1 t7-5 J7.5 1/dd.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                      118
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
I
I
I                                          77,yu
                                        Humbel
                                                               PV
                                                              Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                   ,CE.~-                •ov
                                                                                                                              Per Cent                 Number
                                                                                                                                                              M,1<0CH
                                                                                                                                                                             Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /10.,,11.--
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Per Cent
                                                                                                                       Certain Doubtful Total J;ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total


I
            Enluabon            Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total ce,tain Doubtful Total
    rO.Balloon                     0            I         I    o.o     s. (, 5.t           2             0       :z /'f.J          0.0 11/.;3      0         0       0     o.o      {). 0   O.()       I           ()      I    J.3  il.() .J. 3
    :1-AstlUOOl!lical              2       (,        8 //. I JJ.' 'f'I., 2.                             (,       ~ /<f.3         '-m 57.2          7        II       /{;  v., JS.5 58.,                7           I          fJ H'l.f.J 'IJ. I
    f 2-Aucrlft                    q       (         5 n i s.r, 27.~ (                              0            I 7./            0, 0 7.J        2           /}       ~ H o.o c.s                     2       ()          t /().5 O.P 10.5
                                                                                                                                                                      0 Q.Q o.~ 0 0                                        p o.D 0. O O.P
I   3-Ll&ht Phenom.
    4•8Hds
    ~Clouds,Oust, ett.
                                   0
                                   0
                                   n
                                           (}
                                           (}
                                           ()
                                                      0
                                                      0
                                                      iJ
                                                               0. 0

                                                               0.0
                                                                       0./}
                                                               0,0 0, 0 M
                                                                       (). 0
                                                                                 Q,


                                                                                 o.o
                                                                                      0    Q
                                                                                           0
                                                                                           0        0
                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                              /}
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                  fJ    o.O
                                                                                                                         o.a
                                                                                                                         0,0
                                                                                                                                  o.n o.o
                                                                                                                                  a.u Q,O
                                                                                                                                 I!. p O.P
                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                  z
                                                                                                                                                  Q          0
                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                              0       '.I  ,.~ 0. 0 6.5
                                                                                                                                                                      0 o.o ().() o. 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                       fl
                                                                                                                                                                                                               q
                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                               ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            () o. 0  0-P o.Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0 {).() o. 0 0. 0
    6-lnsuffic.-.fo.               0       /}         0        o.tJMJ.o
                                                               00                          I        0         I         7./ n.o 7.J               L/         ()      'f 17. 'f 0, 0 12 .I{             f      0            5 u., o.o 26-3
                                                          0. Q o. 0 o.o                                                 0.0 n.o o.o                                   0 0. P 0,PJ n.o                                            o. q o.o {).()
I
    7-Psydl>lo~cal                 C1      0          0                                    0        0         0                                   0           /1                                    0          /}          (}
    ~Unknown                       J       II         3 lt-7 o.o ll7                       I        ()        I         7,/       u 7./           (          ()      5 !61   tH /6,1                   3       0           3    10 ().0 IS.R
    9-0ttie,                       I       0          I        S(,     o. ()    .S.6,      I            0    I          1·/      u 7,/            (J         ()      rJ o. 0   0 a.Oo.                 0       ()         0     n.o 0.0 o. 0


I          Total                /0         8         18 5.5.t,         H-9 ;n, 8                   r,        I 't SJ./ '12.-1 /QI.              2.0     JI          3/ H-5 35,5 /00. JU                       I          I'!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ""·'    .f. J   /PO.




I   I Evaluation
        0-Balloon
                                        Number
                                                    #,..,,
                                                              Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                             rv,ve
                                                                                                            PerCenl                 Nurrtier              Pe< Cent
                                                                                                                                                                   ,Tv1-v
                                                                                                                                                                                  Number               PerCmt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ~,,r.
                                Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Ooobtful Total ~ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                   'I           I          S' /0.f) J, 5 ,i.s              I        ()               I S.'!       00 5.f          I          (}       I ~-2 (). 0           n          '7     (l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <T



                                                                                                                                                                                                                 t1 o.~ !).(} /). p
                                                                                                                        s.r 17-f. ns
I       1-AstlOnoaucal
        2·Aircrafl
        l·Lichl Phenom.
        4-Birds
                                   7
                                   4
                                    0
                                    0
                                                It
                                                ~
                                                0
                                                0
                                                          (, 17-5 10.0 175
                                                          7 /0, 0 7.5 17-6
                                                          0 o.o D-0 Q.Q
                                                          0 (/.{) o.o 0.1)
                                                                                           I
                                                                                            I

                                                                                           (/
                                                                                           /)
                                                                                                   p
                                                                                                    3


                                                                                                   I)
                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                              q
                                                                                                                 2 5,9
                                                                                                                 tJ
                                                                                                                 ~
                                                                                                                         o.o o,o
                                                                                                                         0,0
                                                                                                                                  5.'f 11.B

                                                                                                                                  qq
                                                                                                                                         fl 0
                                                                                                                                         0.0
                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                 (I
                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                             'i
                                                                                                                                                             3
                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                      5" P. 0 ,J/.:l, 3/.l
                                                                                                                                                                      3
                                                                                                                                                                     i) 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                           o.o!f.8 /U.9
                                                                                                                                                                                O.D
                                                                                                                                                                     I o. 0 t.:J. C,]
                                                                                                                                                                                            o.~
                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                       I     30 3/ 1./, 1t,.'f 7!.S
                                                                                                                                                                                                              :z 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0 o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,f. I 7.7

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                d. 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        o. 0 u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        o.o 0.0

I       ft.Clouds. Oust. etc.
        6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
        7-PsytN>logical
    &-Unkno'MI
                                    0
                                   /I
                                    q
                                   I,      C
                                            0
                                            0
                                            ~
                                                          0 o.o 11.a d.O
                                                      If :n.s p 0 :l-7S
                                                       t)
                                                          f,
                                                               o.o o.o o.o
                                                               l.f.O   0-0      lf.P
                                                                                           0
                                                                                           ?

                                                                                           6
                                                                                               I
                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                    0

                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                    (!
                                                                                                               p 0,0
                                                                                                              '2. /1.B
                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                              (. 35.3
                                                                                                                                 0 q
                                                                                                                                 o.o 1/.9
                                                                                                                       s.r o.o S'.'I
                                                                                                                                 o.o 30
                                                                                                                                         Q.O      .)
                                                                                                                                                 -~
                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                  ?
                                                                                                                                                         p
                                                                                                                                                            0

                                                                                                                                                            (!
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                     .J 111,f/ Q. 0 19.B
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                           0. 0

                                                                                                                                                                          o. 0 o.O o.o
                                                                                                                                                                     ::l. fl.-~
                                                                                                                                                                                     u o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                    0 q /1.J
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0

                                                                                                                                                                                                       2
                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                        2      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (J      p o.Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           i f. I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           t fl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I 1_t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ().Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (I_ 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         o. /) .5.(
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5./
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        n,o 1..(,
                                                                                                                                                                           n.
I   9-0tne,


    I      Total                n.
                                       0   0              I)   o.o
                                           8 'l-0 10.0 2.U. 0 !OP,
                                                                        0. 0 0. g          I

                                                                                          /3
                                                                                                    p

                                                                                                   Lf
                                                                                                              I s.r

                                                                                                             /7 71-S ~H m.
                                                                                                                                 o. 0 r.'1
                                                                                                                                                 7
                                                                                                                                                  I      ()


                                                                                                                                                        'I
                                                                                                                                                                     I              0 q l.'l,

                                                                                                                                                                    h' l{J.f) 5'6,2 II~.           7
                                                                                                                                                                                                        0      ()          /)   0,1)

                                                                                                                                                                                                             3 :z 3 '1 17-1 /12./ /QO.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        rJ, 0 J.0




I   :
    I
                                           5'
                                        NumbeJ
                                               £/'T.•"" #'.*"'
                                                              Per Cent
                                                                                         l"./rTP>'E'K
                                                                                      Number                Per Cm!
                                                                                                                                         MI/T.,,M 17 J":-O,,
                                                                                                                                    Nulltler              Pe, Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                    /7-c.e-HffE""R
                                                                                                                                                                                  Number               PerCBII



I            Evaluation
        ~Balloon
        1-Astrooomical
        2-Aucraft
                                Certain Ooobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Ce<lain Oooblful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Douutfu Total Certain Doubtful Total


                                   0
                                   0
                                     I      0 I 3J.3
                                            0
                                           (l
                                                      0
                                                      ()
                                                                O.&
                                                                        o.
                                                                    0 JJ.J 0
                                                                   u.o o.,
                                                               0.0 o., 0/J
                                                                                          I)

                                                                                           I
                                                                                               I
                                                                                                  () 0 0
                                                                                                        3
                                                                                                        f
                                                                                                              'f II!. I
                                                                                                              :( I//./
                                                                                                                       /),0     0 o.o
                                                                                                                                 JJ,3 'l'I.~ t/
                                                                                                                                  II, I 2V. 0
                                                                                                                                                        I    {7      I      a.,
                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                            7 II 'lt-i 'lt-7 7J.~
                                                                                                                                                            I I fJ.O t-7 t.7
                                                                                                                                                                                     (/     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                       2
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,y_
                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.
                                                                                                                                                                                                              'f-
                                                                                                                                                                                                              (}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I 6-7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          t,     (J.'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         C-7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1?.7 'fp.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1 /J.J 0. 0 !J.3

I       3-Li,t,I Phenom.
        4-Birds
        S-Clouds, Oust. etc.
        6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
                                   0
                                   /l
                                   ()
                                    2
                                           0
                                           ()
                                            0
                                               (/    1
                                                      /)
                                                      0 0-P
                                                      0
                                                               o.o (l.O OJI
                                                                 n.o Q.o
                                                               M r,.b o.o
                                                               tt.1     /),()   /t7
                                                                                           0
                                                                                           0
                                                                                           0
                                                                                           ?
                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                    ()
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                 (J
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                              (J M 0.0 OQ
                                                                                                                         (l.O
                                                                                                                         o.
                                                                                                              l n.i o,o 222
                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                  0,0
                                                                                                                                  ao
                                                                                                                                         00
                                                                                                                                         0.0
                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                 (J
                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                         ()
                                                                                                                                                         (}
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            (}
                                                                                                                                                                     Q
                                                                                                                                                                     q
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                            O.{)
                                                                                                                                                                           tJ. 0 0.1
                                                                                                                                                                            o.o  n tJ
                                                                                                                                                                            o.b Q./J
                                                                                                                                                                                    u       f).0
                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                            0-0
                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                       D
                                                                                                                                                                                                       6
                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                              11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0 o.o o.o o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0 o.o 0-0 /J,D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0 o.D o. ~ /J.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I    f..7     0- 0   /,_7


I       7-Psycholoeical
        ~Unknown
    l}-{)ther
                                   {)
                                   0
                                   0
                                           ()
                                           0
                                           0
                                                      ()
                                                      0
                                                      0
                                                               Q,0
                                                               00
                                                               o.o
                                                                        o.o OJJ
                                                                       0.0
                                                                       oO
                                                                                ~-(}
                                                                                 o.o
                                                                                           0
                                                                                           I
                                                                                           ()
                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                        (l


                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                              0 a,o O.t) o.o
                                                                                                              I // ,/ o.o /)}
                                                                                                              0 0,0 0-0 0.P
                                                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                  /}    p
                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                        {)
                                                                                                                                                                     (}     (),Jj
                                                                                                                                                                     2 /J3 o.o /3.3
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                     Q.0


                                                                                                                                                                            0.0 /J,0 0-0
                                                                                                                                                                                            0./J
                                                                                                                                                                                                       3
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ?
                                                                                                                                                                                                        (J    /}
                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             {)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0     o,c     0 -0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3 io.o 0 O 2Q.P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           :t /J. 3 o.o JU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (),/)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,,.,
I          Total                   3       0          3 /C,J.0         1),0     IM,       s         £/        q ss.t, 'l'l-'1 /0(),
                                                                                                                                                 "      '!          /5     '10.U (,0.0 /00.        II        'f          /5 73.                 /00.




I
I
I
I
I                                                                                                                                119

I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                              El/AL 1/AfltJtJt

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
I
111-a.11000
            Ew1h11hon           ~

                                  (j
                                              - -r,,


                                                  0         0
                                                                     ,.,,
                                                                             Percent
                                              Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                      0.Q      J.(}    ()(}      '3
                                                                                                         r£DPtJ"" v
                                                                                                      Number


                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                            Per Cent                Nu-
                                                                                               ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubl!UI Total Certain DoublfuI Total Certain Doublful Tot~
                                                                                                                     :, 1n P.P 1'-7                    5        I
                                                                                                                                                                     M,ocu-
                                                                                                                                                                          Per Cent


                                                                                                                                                                         ' /3.5
                                                                                                                                                                                '), 7 //,.'
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,4,.R/L


                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Per Cent


                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0     I    s: 3           Q.P    5. 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
<·
 1-AstlOIIOllical
12-A,rcraft
                                  f
                                  2.
                                                 3
                                                 (}
                                                           II        5o.o
                                                            1 /2.5 0.0 !H
                                                                               13.9 69.B             2
                                                                                                     "
                                                                                                          tJ
                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                      • 11. I n.1. 33.3
                                                                                                                     'I n     o. 0 )2,1                ,,
                                                                                                                                                       'I       ()
                                                                                                                                                                'f II
                                                                                                                                                                         # /P.9 0.0 /0.:
                                                                                                                                                                                  JR. f 10.9 21.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                               If

                                                                                                                                                                                                               "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 JI- 2/. I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                JI- 1././ o.o 1/. I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.()   2/. I

                                                                                                                                                         n                        oJJ      o.p o.o                               0        o. Q o.o          o. 0
                                                                                                                      0 Q. 0 (J.0 0-.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
    3-Littit Ptlslom.             0              ll         0         /} p     ll.O    O0            Q    0                                                     /)       0                                     0         (J
                                                                                                                                                                                  o.o                                                     o. 0 0.0

         _
4-Biflls                          ,)             Q         (J         0o        0.0    00        0        {)          0 o.o o.o 0.0                     0       0        0                 li.n n,P            /)        ll         0                   0.P
S-Clouds, Dus~ el~                a              ll        0          0.0      o.o 0. {)         0        n          0 0.0            11.0    o. 0      0       (}       0         o.
                                                                                                                                                                                  0.0        Q 0 0, 0                    D          p     0.0       D.O 0.()
    6-lnsuffic. klfo.             I              0         I          ,. 2     00                I        (}         I SI,            o.o .S.r,         ~       0 8               u.,       o.o 'JU            -~        n·         j    /.J'.8     0./)   /,S. f,
                                                                                     ' 1
    ..                                                                                                                                                                       o.o o. 0 n. o I                                                        /) .0 S-.3
                                                                      0.0                                            0 0.0            0.0 ().0                  R 0                                                      0          I    J'.3

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                               0 0 I O0                                                                ()
    7-Psydlolo~<II                    0
                                      I
                                                 fl
                                                 0
                                                           0
                                                           I          ,:i      0.0 ,.;i         ,,
                                                                                                 0        0
                                                                                                          0          2 I/./           o.P //./         LI       ~        if I O.'e Q.0 fp,g C.                           D          ' 3/. t         0 p .1/ ,I
    ~the<                         I             ()         I         ,.i 0 0 fl                  2            0      ,Z II.I          o.o II.I         0        'i       II 0.0 10,B ,o.u ()                              0         0    o.o        O0      o.,
                                                           /e, fn !i.B ;oo                                                  n.a 222 /Od. u                              37 15,                                          0 If 1100.0 q,O I (JQ.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
           Total                I)              3·                                             I 'I       If Ii                                                9                           ')'f. 3 !PP.       !'I


··-          ~---                 ..
                                                      -;it-:;,--.::-
r
i
ID-Balloon
            Evaluahon           Certain Doubtful Total Certain Ooubtfu I Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doublful Total
                                      I
                                              Number


                                                      /}
                                                              Per Cent


                                                             I /II·    o. 0 /'13
                                                                                       Number

                                                                                                 If       0
                                                                                                             PerCmt
                                                                                                                   J,, •. r


                                                                                                                      'I ct?i o. 0 t{,.?                I
                                                                                                                                                             Nuni>er
                                                                                                                                                                        .Tu       v
                                                                                                                                                                                   Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                      ertain Doubtful Total Certain DoubtfuI Total certain Doubtfu
                                                                                                                                                                   0         I    4:B          0.0   Lf,8
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Number

                                                                                                                                                                                                               -i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Av,:;vsr


                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Perc.nt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Total Certain Doubl!UI Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '.I #. 7 o. C ?.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                            J ,',. ~ l'f. 3 n.,
li-Astronom,cal
!2.A1rcraft
:3-L,pt Ptienom.
    4-Buds                            r;
                                          j       0
                                                 (;
                                                       I
                                                      ,)    0 o. 0 u.O 0 0
                                                                II     0,0
                                                               0 ~.o o.o 0-0
                                                                                o.o    o.o
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                     ()
                                                                                                     f)
                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                          " 0 o.o
                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                          f
                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                      0 o.o O.d 0. I

                                                                                                                      0 ll.O
                                                                                                                      0 n,o
                                                                                                                                      0.(1
                                                                                                                                      (/ q
                                                                                                                                      o.o 0. 0
                                                                                                                                              0.0
                                                                                                                                              o.o
                                                                                                                                                        7

                                                                                                                                                       "0
                                                                                                                                                        n
                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                 (l



                                                                                                                                                                ()
                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                         7
                                                                                                                                                                         s
                                                                                                                                                                         n
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                  JJ.J Q .0 I.H.J
                                                                                                                                                                                  lf,0 4.8 117, 8
                                                                                                                                                                                  o.o o.o 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                  O.o          o.O Q.O         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                f)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1 4. 3 7,(./ <0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5 IJ.~ f.3 '.ll.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          o.o o.o 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           p,q       d}     0 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
~
                                                                                                                              o.o                                         n 0. 0 o.o o.O                                                   o.o o.o o.o
                                                               0 o.o /l.D i,,Jl                                       J               n,o 0. 0          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
    $--Clouds. Dust, etc.             C           0                                                  0    0                                                      (J                                            0         /)         0
    6-lnsufht. Info.                   o'         /)            :{ Ji.I,       0.0 '}</.t        ()       0           I       o,r,    0-d     0. Q      I,         (l    1-1 /'7.0 0  lf,t                     2.        (l      ~        9.7       0.(/    9.7
~7-Psyclrllogical                         0          0          (}     O,d      o.~ o.o              J    ()          a o.o 0 .d o.o                   0           J      0 o.o 0.0 o. 0                        0        p          ()     0. d     0       Q.Q
                                          I       /)                            o.o N.'3        1                     'J. JJ.3 0 .o JJ.~                                 '-I /0,Q D,Q If p                               n               l.6, / 0.0 U.I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '
18-Unkno•                                                           I Jq.3                                0                                             t.,      0                                             I,
                                                                I     0,0 /f,'2, /1/J                                 0 O.ll ·o.o 0. ~                                                               o.o                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                      ,)          I                                                       0                                             n          ()             P.O 1).0                                                'f.3
IS-Other                                                                                             0                                                                   0                                      I         0                         O.fl /.f.3
I

           Total                  s               ~'           7 11.~ 'J8 /,1 Iv'~.             C         0          (,     /dO.      0.0 /00,        20        I 'J./            rn '-1.9 m. 16                        7 2:; ~t.6 JP. 'f 100,




I
    I
                                                SrPrffMtf'FR
                                              Number           PerCenl                   Number
                                                                                                          /l        ,._
                                                                                                                Per Cent
                                                                                                                             -~
                                                                                                                                        NuntJer
                                                                                                                                                               J/

                                                                                                                                                               Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                         -A.       -      •o

                                                                                                                                                                                       Number               PerCmt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        D--,- ~=,;-R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                Certain Doubtfu I Total Certain Doubtfu I Total Certain l)o,mtfu I Total Certain Doobtlul Total Certain Doubtfu I Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu Total Certain Doubl!UI Total

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
    I        Evaluabon
                                                                                                                                                                                               o.o    ~3 It. 1,.,
        II-Balloon
1l-Astronom1cal
                                    !)
                                      ('
                                            {J      ()
                                                     0
                                                          00 0.0 /J.O
                                                                5 3P5 o.~ n.,
                                                                                    I        ()
                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                      I /Q. 0 0.0 10.0
                                                                                                               I      ":I    /A.fl
                                                                                                                                      7      0
                                                                                                                                      I h.n 'Jo.o
                                                                                                                                                    ~ /J,J
                                                                                                                                                         0       0
                                                                                                                                                                         /3.3
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                   '1
                                                                                                                                                                                  o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                           'I
                                                                                                                                                                                               o.o    t).n      1          1'- 37.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '.3       '               n, ,o.o
~~~aft
                                       r.
                                                     C         '2 15'.'t ().O /.',.'I            ()        I          I       o.o     I 0.0   ,n.o       2.     if        C /3,3           26;/ : JI/J,/,       I          0I 47.                   o.o t.~
                                                                                o.o                                                                                                o.,                                                              o.o o. 0
                                                                                                                              n.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
,3-Liglll Phenom.                     (;             0         0       0-0             /l.1'         fi    Ci         0                n.o     n.~      Q        Q       (/                 0.0 ,1-n            ()       D 0 0.0
    4-Bnds                            C              0         0       O·d      0,0    /J.b          n     I\         11      o.o n,0 Oo                Q       0            ()    0,(/        o.o    II.fl    0         D 0 0-0                    o.o 0. 0
    S-Clouds. Dust, etc.              r,             !)        0       0.0      o.o    r,,~           0    0          0       /JI)    n,O      o.o      Ii      0        iJ O.p                o.o    II.~     ()       11          0 a. o          0,0     0.0
    6-lnsuff,c. ~to.                  3              0         3      n, o.o 11.J .,                 0    0           /)      a.o     o.o      Q.o         J    0        I t.?                 o.o   1,,7      I          II        I     /.7       n.o lf.1
                                                                                                                                                                                  o.o o.o ().0
        1-Psycholo&ical
    8-Unknowr1
    ,-,-Other
                                  :,
                                       Q


                                      (j
                                                 0
                                                 0
                                                 0
                                                               0
                                                                3 n1
                                                                0
                                                                       o.o o.J
                                                                       Q.Q
                                                                                a,o IJ.1./
                                                                                o.o
                                                                                       0-~

                                                                                       0-b
                                                                                                     f1
                                                                                                     ,,
                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                          ti
                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                      0

                                                                                                                      '  60.0
                                                                                                                       0 Q0
                                                                                                                              0 ,//   ll()
                                                                                                                                      Q.O
                                                                                                                                       o.U
                                                                                                                                              IJ.(1
                                                                                                                                              60.0
                                                                                                                                              o. 0
                                                                                                                                                       s
                                                                                                                                                        0

                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                (l
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                        5 J?.., o.o 3.3.3
                                                                                                                                                                        I (,,7 o-0 M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I     II
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -/2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I    'f. '),_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1-. 3,3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0 If. 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    D.0 1./-,1,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    oo f. 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    n.a 't. 1..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                o.o ')/J.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
           Total            I   ;3               0 13 too.o                                      g        2,        I t2 Fo.o :JO 0 /OU. fl                    'I       /S [7J.J U.i /00.                     17        7       :Ut 70.2 ;i..f. ~ I 00.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                120
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
I
I
I                                       lmmbel
                                              JAMU

                                                              Per Cent
                                                                      RY
                                                                                                          Number
                                                                                                                   ,,,:_-r-, ,,,,,,,,,, y
                                                                                                                            Percent                            Number
                                                                                                                                                                            /C-j',4pc,;,t
                                                                                                                                                                                     Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    APH/,L.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Per Cent
    !        Evaluahon          Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total                  ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total             ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain DIMlbtful Total Certain Doubtful Tot~


I   !}Balloon
    '1·ASIIOnomical
    I
    !2•A1mlft
                                      .!.
                                       I
                                      il
                                              '2
                                              1.
                                                  I      -:, /0. 5 S.J !H
                                                         'J .s.J /v._r:; Jf.8
                                                         1            o.o      10.5 /0 S
                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                 11
                                                                                                             2
                                                                                                             3
                                                                                                              0         I If. I
                                                                                                                        z Q, u 1.?.2 n2
                                                                                                                           j   o.O
                                                                                                                                        0 0 //,/

                                                                                                                                    JJ.J 3J. 3
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           }
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                           (}      0
                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0     a.o
                                                                                                                                                                                     lt.1 16. 1 33.1/
                                                                                                                                                                                      Q. 0 1,. 7 /1,,7
                                                                                                                                                                                                         o.P     p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I 33.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                O.f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            u (/,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            O.P 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            o.o 'JJ,3
                                                                               o.o o. Q                                        /} 0 (/,0 I). 0                                     0 0,0 o.c Q, 0                             (/      n  O.o                0.()    po
I
    3-Lighl Phenom.                (';        C          ()           O.v                        Q            0         0                                 0            I)                                        ()

    4•8Hds                         C          ()         /'l          o.o      o. 0 o. 0         ()          0          0      Qg    b.D o. 0             0            0           0 0,0 0.6 0 .o                0            0      0   0.1                o.o     O.P
    5-Clouds, Oust. etc.           ('         0         n              6.0     o.o o. 0          (l             0       0      0.0 o.o 0,/1               D            0           0      o.o     o.g    0. ii 0          0          0   0.0                0.0   o.c
        6-lnsuffic.lnfa.          5           0         s             Jt.J o.o ~t..3             0           0          0      0,0 Q,0         o.o        0            0           0      ().0    O.D    o. 0 '1          0         1         1,t. 7        o.o t (,.7
                                                                                                                        0 0.0 o.o M                                                               o.o    o.o Q                                              Ml      o. 0
I
        7-Psyd'lllo~c:al           0          C         0             0 C ().0 0. 0               0          0                                            0            0           0      0,0                             ()         0         00
        I-Unknown                 5               (I    5             ,n 1),0 U.J                 I          0           I //. I q,Q I/. I                J            0           s £'0. 0       (),0 §I)_ 0    0        0         0          o.o          0.0 o.u
    9,Qtt,e,                          I       0          I            5;3      (J. 0   5. .1     '2          0          ::t n.2 /J.V 21.,                 0            ()          0      0.()    Q,O    o.o     (;       0         0           0.0         o.O O.o
                                                        ,r 73. 7 ;,.3 !/JO· 'I                                                                 m if                    :t                66-1 3J.3 ;oa.                                                    0. 0 m
I                                                                                                           5          q 11/1/1 ff.I,                                              ~                             'J           0
            Total               /'f           5                                                                                                                                                                                      '.,      ///}.(




I   i
    I
             Evaluation
        i}Ballooo
                                        Number
                                                       HA v
                                                              Per Cent                Number                Per Cet1t
                                Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain DIMlbtflll Total
                                      2           0              <'10.11        0.0 'ltJ.v       0              0
                                                                                                                     .lv/1/r

                                                                                                                        0       0/1     (,,0    0.0          (J
                                                                                                                                                               Nuriler
                                                                                                                                                                                 .Tvt-v
                                                                                                                                                                                     Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                        ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Ooubtfu
                                                                                                                                                                        0          0 Q. 0 o.o o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Number

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,:1,     ,C./,15 T'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Total Certain Ooubtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2 5,'f 1'1 11.8
                                                                       c.c o.o o.o                                                                                                                                                   0 o. q o.o O.P
I       l•Astronom1cal
        2-Aircraft
        3-Li&ht Pllenom.
        C-.Birds
                                   I
                                   0
                                   0
                                      i)


                                              0
                                              I
                                                  c'
                                                  0
                                                             0
                                                                 I
                                                                 ,)
                                                                 I
                                                                      70.0
                                                                       o.o 0 0
                                                                                0 0 20.0

                                                                       c.r, 70.J .~J. C
                                                                                       u
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                         r.
                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                               Q.0
                                                                                                                               .IM.?
                                                                                                                                1 ()
                                                                                                                                f)I)
                                                                                                                                        0, 0
                                                                                                                                        0 .o
                                                                                                                                        0 .o
                                                                                                                                        u
                                                                                                                                               nn
                                                                                                                                               ,.~o.o
                                                                                                                                                o.o
                                                                                                                                                D0
                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                           I

                                                                                                                                                           Q
                                                                                                                                                           a
                                                                                                                                                                        7
                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                        ll
                                                                                                                                                                                   3 //./ n2 3'.l.3
                                                                                                                                                                                   I 11/.1
                                                                                                                                                                                   0 o. 0
                                                                                                                                                                                   0 o. 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                   oo /(./
                                                                                                                                                                                                   o. 0 o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                   O.Q   OJ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  'Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I 5., d.O .VI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        :; JI. C ✓,,, 17,7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0     Q. /)       (J./)    (J.i}


I       S-Clouds., Oust, etc.
        6-lnsuflic.lnfo.
                                   C
                                   r;
                                              C
                                                  0
                                                             (}
                                                             0
                                                                       :,'.)
                                                                       O.J o.v
                                                                               ,··.:', J. ~
                                                                                       u
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       0 o.o
                                                                                                                               o.c o.o
                                                                                                                                        0 .n 0{,
                                                                                                                                                Go         0
                                                                                                                                                           Q
                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                  (J
                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                          o. 0
                                                                                                                                                                                          o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                   o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                   0,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                         0. I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0      3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,0      0.0 o.o a tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              17. b        O.Q n.i,
        7-Psycholo~cal                11      V   -          'J        ti.O I
                                                                      'Ju.(' C,0
                                                                                ~.o o. 0
                                                                                    ~o.o
                                                                                                  I)         1)        0       QO 0.0
                                                                                                                                        p0
                                                                                                                                                o.o
                                                                                                                                                o.o
                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                       a
                                                                                                                                                                        I          I      o.o     //./ Ii.I
                                                                                                                                                                                       3 J..lJ 0. 0 JJ,3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0       0            n O.(J 0.(J 0. 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7 1.//. (. o.o J/./,'l
        B-Unkno•                       I      fl             I
                                                                                o.o o.o
                                                                                                 0            0         0      ().0                        3
                                                                                                                                                                                          ,,., o. 0 //,/          7       /)



I   I
        9-Qtt,e,



            Tota                 'I
                                      0       (}


                                              I
                                                             (j         0,/'

                                                       I ![ to.0 20.0 /(/{).
                                                                                                 0

                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                       0

                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                Od o.o

                                                                                                                               100.0 Q.O
                                                                                                                                                o.o
                                                                                                                                               /~.        b
                                                                                                                                                           I      il

                                                                                                                                                                   3
                                                                                                                                                                                   I

                                                                                                                                                                                  'I     u;,7 Jj,J !DO. /5 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      J       0       I J,'f 0./) S.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    17 ?i.2 /!./; 1#0.


I   I
        i
                                        Humbel
                                              5£,PT~-M4'F"7
                                                               Pa Cent                 Number
                                                                                                                £1c ► ,'\~FA>
                                                                                                              Per Cent                 Nuriler               Pe,Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                ~.,.,,,,,.,,,.,,._,q
                                                                                                                                                                                     Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              D,=&             ~DER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Per Cent


I            Evaluation
        l}Balooo
        l•Astn:inonlical
        2•Aircrah
                                Certain DIMlbtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Oo<l>tful Total Certain DIMlblful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Ooubtfu
                                      I
                                      J
                                      I
                                                  0

                                                  0
                                                   I
                                                                 ' IJ'. f
                                                         3 /Jg .J'. r /7, 7
                                                         I Sf q_(J S.'I
                                                                                o.o 5'1              I
                                                                                                     l
                                                                                                     If       ?.
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                 I      7
                                                                                                                        &
                                                                                                                           I     I/.
                                                                                                                               1$'.0
                                                                                                                               /1,.,j
                                                                                                                                         ao '/.i
                                                                                                                                        'U 21.:i f
                                                                                                                                         p, 3 •Jf.o
                                                                                                                                                          0

                                                                                                                                                          z
                                                                                                                                                                   4
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                       I           I 0./) 6-1 (.2
                                                                                                                                                                                  I Z '50.0 2r.o 7f0
                                                                                                                                                                                   ~ l~-6          o.o IH t.f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I           0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Total Certain Ooubtful Total

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I 'I.I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '3 /1?.:l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            r.t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (}.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '!. I 27-3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LI 3t-'1 o. p 3C,4

I       3-Liaht Phe'IOII.
        4-Birds
        S-Clouds, Oust. etc.
        6-lnsuffic.lnlo.           J
                                       0
                                       0
                                          0       0
                                                  0
                                                  0
                                                  0
                                                         0 o.o 0.:) 0. fl
                                                         0 0. 0 {) 0 0 0
                                                         e 0 0 ') .' o. 0
                                                         1 1/-B o.:; 11 B
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                     ()
                                                                                                              0

                                                                                                             {)
                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                        0 0.0
                                                                                                                                0.0

                                                                                                                               00
                                                                                                                            0.0 o.~ o.n
                                                                                                                                         o.o
                                                                                                                                        0. 0
                                                                                                                                                {J,O
                                                                                                                                               0.0
                                                                                                                                        o.o (),()
                                                                                                                                                          Q
                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                          Q
                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                   n
                                                                                                                                                                   ()
                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                   a Q,0
                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                          (),Q


                                                                                                                                                                                          o. 0
                                                                                                                                                                                          t,J..
                                                                                                                                                                                                  o.o  o. 0 {)
                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.1 /).Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                   o.O M
                                                                                                                                                                                                   o.rJ 6.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (')
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              o. 0 o.rl 0,/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              o.o 0.0 Q.d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              u o.c o. 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I '1./ o.o If./
                                                                                                     "0
I       7-Psycholo1ita1
        8-Unknollll
        ,-Other
                                      &
                                       ()


                                      :i.
                                              0
                                              0
                                                  0      0 o.o o. 0 O 0
                                                         G' 47.t o.o 71
                                                         1            II B o.o //, "I            "   l
                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                             (J
                                                                                                                       0

                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                           0.0 o. 0 O.fl
                                                                                                                        ff 37.5 o.o 375
                                                                                                                           ff.] o.o 11.1.
                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                           (J     0
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                   I)             0
                                                                                                                                                                                   0

                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                          o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                          p.Q
                                                                                                                                                                                          0-0
                                                                                                                                                                                                   I) iJ a.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                   l!.C n.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                  0. 0   o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I 9./   o.o 'f,t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               o.o o.o o. 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            o.O 9,J



I           Tota                IC,           I         /7            '19.!    s.r JOO. 1. I                 .3 'J'/· n,5 1;.'i /,JI},                  II        .{             /6,     Cf!!     ,/.1   fOV. /0          I         JI        '11).'f      '(./    /00.




I
I
I
I
I                                                                                                                                       121


I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                  ;T,i,A/0,1.DV
                                 ,.,_               Per.Cent
                                                                               ,,c-L -

                                                                            Number
                                                                                                  ,,7y
                                                                                                  Per Cent                 Number
                                                                                                                                    #~c,cN
                                                                                                                                                  Pa Cent
                                                                                                                                                                             AP""'/
                                                                                                                                                                          Number                ""Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                   Tolll Certain Doubtful Tot~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
      EYll1111lon     Certain Doubtful Tolll Certain Doubtful Total certain Doubltul To131 Certain Doubtful Total [;ertain Doubtful Total Certain  Doubtful Tolll Certain Doubtful

,_~8'11000                 I       /)         I ,. 1      0.0    n         I      ()        I 5.,         (),0   S:t
                                                                                                          r., l.7.9
                                                                                                                             3         I       °JI 11.s lt.:J. II..,          3          '?    6 J,3          J,J
                                                                                                                                                                                                              (). p 1,.~
:l•Astrolllftlltal        I/       I;-       ,- )6.1     1C-7 51.'f       ~      I          '   ;JJ.)                       I         0        I 'f,'l     (),()   'f, 1     IS      I')      15 It. 'S
12-Aucratt                0        0         /J   O.Q    0. 0 0. {)       1--    2.       If (/./         //./ 22-~         J       ..2.       S IJ-5    9.1 ao.~            I'?     7        'J 0    /lf-J   7-7 11.0
                                                         q0 0 0                                           O.Q o.o                                    o.O o.o 0.0                                       1- I o.o       I. I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
3-Lict,:tPbenorn.          0       0          p Oq                        ~       /)      0   0. (l                          /)       tJ       I)                             I     ,1          I
4•Birds                   I'        0        ()   00     00      0 iJ     0       /)      I)     0,, Q.O         (l.(l       /       LJ         I 'f.'J 0.0 '1,2              'j'    I          4- 1.J        J.J    'i.'1
S-Clouds, llu>l et~                          0    (JO    (/_0    Q./                      tJ  a. a O,q           o.o                  I         I o.O 4.2 '/.'                /J     t)         0     (),0    V0     o.o
 6-lnsuffit. kit>.        ,,
                           /)      0
                                   /)        0    0. 0   0()     (),()
                                                                          ~

                                                                          I
                                                                                 C
                                                                                 0          I 1.' o.0            s. t
                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                             I       JJ         I If 1 0.0 '-1.1             '"'I    I)        ID II. o ().0 JI. 0


~--
1-Psydlolo&iCII


~aw,
                         7--
                         2
                          ;t._     tJ
                                   0
                                   /)
                                             .l.. 11.3
                                             .,   13.3
                                             1 11. l
                                                         0. 0 /j_ 3
                                                          0.()   /J.1,
                                                         0. p ,1.1
                                                                          /)


                                                                          '
                                                                         .2.
                                                                                 /)

                                                                                  tJ
                                                                                 L)
                                                                                          /)
                                                                                          ,
                                                                                               0.0 0,0 o.G
                                                                                               11.B 0.0 27.9
                                                                                         .2... /I. I (/,() /1-1
                                                                                                                            ~
                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                             j       tJ
                                                                                                                                     /)

                                                                                                                                     t5
                                                                                                                                               ~
                                                                                                                                               jJ.
                                                                                                                                                     o. p l).p     Q, 0
                                                                                                                                                  lt.'1 o. (} 1'-7 J:Z.
                                                                                                                                               'T 'I,'). 25.0 11.    2
                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                     11
                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    I I. I
                                                                                                                                                                                               .1, 35.?.
                                                                                                                                                                                                  2. 1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                              (). 0 /,I
                                                                                                                                                                                                              o.n 35"-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                              o. 0 ~ -2.     I
     T~                 //        .II-      15 7].J 76,7 /PP.            IS      3       /fl    /JJ.3 16.7 I OP.          JJ/,      It? .:UJ. 59 3 41- 1 100. 90                    /I        r; 87.'f !1-I JPO.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
      Entaation
                              Number
                                         NAY
                                                    Per Cent                Numbe,
                                                                                       7u       C
                                                                                                  Per COIi
                      Certain Doubtful Tolll Certain llomtful Tolll Certain Dotmttul To131 Certain Doubtful Total
                                                  n,
                                                                                                                                   Nulmer
                                                                                                                                              r,,    V
                                                                                                                                                       Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                                                                                                         .ti. ,,.,, sr
                                                                                                                                                                                                    PerCmt
                                                                                                                          ertain Doubtful Tolll Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                                           7.2 19'!                  ,.,, 75 in JI. 1 ?.I-{
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
 ~8'11-                   II        H       I'S          'f.5 17.0       21       £ ;n IJ_(/              3.7 16.
                                                                                                ,,,_' /0.C 25.5 'It
                                                                                                                            6t       11-7     in /';/.1                      31,
                                                                                                                                                                                              ,, 1/.7 7-2 18.'J
 l·Astnlnollical
 2..\ircmt
 HitfilPII""".
 4-Birds
                         111-
                        1.i..
                          J
                          ()
                                  I?

                                   t'
                                   C
                                    7 I ' /'5.q
                                      ,t;- IH
                                        3 JI}
                                        0 I. 0
                                                         1-3 1/.'J.
                                                         o., 17.
                                                          0 p 3.f
                                                          0 0 ().0
                                                                         hJ
                                                                         2.£
                                                                          I
                                                                          iJ
                                                                                 17 41
                                                                                 1.i..
                                                                                 I)

                                                                                  I?
                                                                                         J, It-I
                                                                                            I

                                                                                            0
                                                                                                 0.f,
                                                                                                 h.Q
                                                                                                          7-5 ·;/J.6
                                                                                                          Q.I
                                                                                                          a.Q
                                                                                                                   .C,
                                                                                                                  o.o
                                                                                                                            ,ft}

                                                                                                                            /2
                                                                                                                             J
                                                                                                                                     3/}
                                                                                                                                     7• /70 (II 9. II, I 'H-1
                                                                                                                                       If
                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                         /10 13. 7 11., l'l,3

                                                                                                                                              It /,fl
                                                                                                                                               'f 0,5
                                                                                                                                                           n.!. 1 .4
                                                                                                                                                           0. 1 0.7
                                                                                                                                                                             li
                                                                                                                                                                             /JI
                                                                                                                                                                               f
                                                                                                                                                                               I)
                                                                                                                                                                                    .ZS
                                                                                                                                                                                    JIJ
                                                                                                                                                                                     6
                                                                                                                                                                                     tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                              75
                                                                                                                                                                                              JI
                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                      "· 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                       /.If /.7 .'.? I
                                                                                                                                                                                                       U.fl
                                                                                                                                                                                                            'I. 7 1/.lf

                                                                                                                                                                                                              o. () o.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
 ~Clouds, Ousl et~
 6-lnsuffic.•ta.
 l-Psydnlo1i<>1
 &-IJwoNI
                          7-
                          I,

                           r
                        /J/.
                                   tJ
                                   I/
                                    {?
                                   (}
                                             -:i '). 3

                                             '
                                                  ,.a
                                                          o.o :n
                                                          (J 0
                                              0 0 0 0. 0 0.0
                                            l'f /J.'I o. 0 15.1
                                                                 t.9
                                                                          /)
                                                                         /(

                                                                          JI.
                                                                         ,,
                                                                                  iJ
                                                                                 CJ
                                                                                  /)
                                                                                  v 26
                                                                                         ,; JI.] n.o //. 2
                                                                                     " It. I
                                                                                            0   O.Q

                                                                                            H /),() 1-5
                                                                                                          0.0


                                                                                                          ()Q
                                                                                                                  o.'        I
                                                                                                                           /,~
                                                                                                                            9
                                                                                                                 II./ !/.l-.J
                                                                                                                                       I  ;I. n.'l 0.2 o. 'f
                                                                                                                                     0 68 /0,lf q.g In.Ii-
                                                                                                                                     S' /1./ I. If O 8 '.1.'2
                                                                                                                                     0 111 18.B q.g 1$.?
                                                                                                                                                                             :,;


                                                                                                                                                                            ,0
                                                                                                                                                                              tP

                                                                                                                                                                              t,(      I
                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                         I)
                                                                                                                                                                                           't 2-3
                                                                                                                                                                                      I? C7 /f. '2
                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                               Ji 9. 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                      o.n     0- 3 o.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                              0. 0 '1-2
                                                                                                                                                                                                              0. 3 1-(,
                                                                                                                                                                                                              o. () 17-:J.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
~11..,


I Totll
                         7

                      6 'I
                                    I       9 fl.0       I I

                                  I 'f qg ]i.' 2/.f, /10. Jl5
                                                                 'f_ I    s

                                                                                36
                                                                                  J         ~   3- /      o., 1.7
                                                                                         16) 17-' 1).'f JQO.
                                                                                                                           II        I 12 1,7 0,1.. /. q

                                                                                                                          11'/lt /62 6.57, 7f,3 1'1.7 m.
                                                                                                                                                                              9      ti- / i :i-b

                                                                                                                                                                            ~37 /10 JJl.'I r,v.i 'J/. 5 IPf
                                                                                                                                                                                                              1. I   3.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
I Enluation
 ~8'11-
 l•Astnnlllical
                           JJ
                        ;2.].
                               5£PT&"'4/?ER
                              Number


                                    II
                                       'I
                                            15
                                            3(
                                                  1-i
                                                     Percent



                                                  1.ro
                                                 ti 2/. I
                                                          75 /0. 'J.      .J
                                                                         10
                                                                                -
                                                                               /J,:;TL7 >r,,;,



                                                                                  '1
                                                                                                    Per Cent

                                                                                         n. /./.1 12-1 "·'                   .z
                                                                                                                                Mov,e-,...,,:,,1,,R
                                                                                                                            Nuat>er
                      Ceftain 0Ollbtful Total Certain Domlflll Tolll Certain DoolJttul Ta131 Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu Total Certain Doubtful Total


                                                                                  tr I? /J/./ J:l.1 Qt .!l                    5
                                                                                                                                         fr
                                                                                                                                      s IA
                                                                                                                                              ID
                                                                                                                                                  Per Cent

                                                                                                                                                     1-7 /If.~ Ii.•
                                                                                                                                                     1-3   'l.'3 1,9.?
                                                                                                                                                                           ./;?,r,,.-;,,-;9,1;,'?
                                                                                                                                                                          Number


                                                                                                                                                                              ()

                                                                                                                                                                             '1      7
                                                                                                                                                                                         ?
                                                                                                                                                                                              u
                                                                                                                                                                                               Per Cent


                                                                                                                                                                                                ~      t() I/.~ 'l.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,9.7 It/ & 13.;        I
                                                                                                IH 2/.I
                                                                                                                                               ' s. .. u r.t I                                         ti 1',/.ff 2 5.0
 1--Aircraft               q       31 I/ (I t.1 1/-/ 1-2n                 1J.    II /5                                       3        .3                          I/.')__     I      J/ I 2
                                                                                          f. '
                                                                                      I./ (10 s., .s-.,
 3-litfitl'llam.
 4-Birds
 ~Clouds, Dust, et~
                           I
                          ()
                            I      7-
                                    2_

                                    J
                                         3 0.7 /.It 2. I
                                         3 Q7 I 'I 1.1
                                             I 0 0 0.1 o. 7
                                                                          I)



                                                                          0
                                                                           I
                                                                                 jJ.

                                                                                  I
                                                                                  I
                                                                                       :l I-If 1-4
                                                                                        I O. O /. it /-'I
                                                                                                                 u
                                                                                                                            z.
                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                             /)
                                                                                                                                      t)
                                                                                                                                      :z_
                                                                                                                                         J      3
                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                :l
                                                                                                                                                     3,7 /.?
                                                                                                                                                     0.0 0.0 o.O
                                                                                                                                                     0. 0 J.7 3-7
                                                                                                                                                                              t)
                                                                                                                                                                               11
                                                                                                                                                                                     ()
                                                                                                                                                                                     ()
                                                                                                                                                                                     /J        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                       'l-1o.o 2.J
                                                                                                                                                                                                       o.o o. ~ O.Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                       o.O o.a 0./)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
 6-lnsuffi~ illo.        I)..      (1       12 ,9-?. 00 8-1.              JI.     0       If-   _r;,t,    0. 0    $'.f,      IJ       p        if 1.4 0.0 7-4                 :!     t)    ,.1 o_o '-2
                                                                                                                                                                                               '3
 1-Psydnlo&i<>I
 ~Unknc•
 ~11..,
                         J3
                          6
                                   ()
                                   JJ
                                   2.
                                             I 07 0 0 o. 7
                                            33 11'1 00 21-'f
                                             8 I'll      /.'t    )5
                                                                          0
                                                                         II
                                                                          J_
                                                                                 I)
                                                                                 0
                                                                                  I
                                                                                          0 o.o 0.0 (}.Q
                                                                                         II /IS 0 p /5';
                                                                                          3 H            /.If    in
                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                            /.6
                                                                                                                             1.
                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                      t)


                                                                                                                                      t)
                                                                                                                                               I /.' 0.0 J.'J
                                                                                                                                              I t Ht.
                                                                                                                                                :z. J.7
                                                                                                                                                           o.o 'J.'!.t
                                                                                                                                                           ().O    3.7
                                                                                                                                                                             II
                                                                                                                                                                             3
                                                                                                                                                                              I)     CJ  0 0-0 0.0 o.O
                                                                                                                                                                                     t? ii Ji-1 o.O 'JU
                                                                                                                                                                                         ~      3 ,. 1 o.o           ,.'}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
     Total              lf7      sa J!l-7 tn 1¥. 5 m. 15                        3 (,     71 49_1 ro.7 I CO.                35 I "I            Sp l'f_~ 35- 2. JQP. 28               JO        Jt'J fi-3 'I/. 7 /NJ.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                         122
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
I
I
I
I
             E'11aat,oo
        11-ean....
        1--i<al                  /)
                                   J
                                             -T,, ,U J/. .. C>V



                                                .2
                                               /I.
                                                             Per Cent
                               Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tobi
                                                         > f< 2.'/
                                                        $1 JI.~      22'1 lff3
                                                                                    7
                                                                                           ertain Doubtful Tola! Certain Ooublfll Total ~rtai• Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tola! Certain Doubllul



                                                                                             '
                                                                                             II
                                                                                                  Nt1111ber


                                                                                                     /)
                                                                                                    1.2
                                                                                                         ,,r,,,-.- --••.c,y


                                                                                                               6 /0.j
                                                                                                             ;z.:, )0.G
                                                                                                                        Per Cent


                                                                                                                              IJ.O /0. 'I
                                                                                                                              2/.8 9/.8
                                                                                                                              r., 18-i
                                                                                                                                               Nu-


                                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                                                 1:2     /0
                                                                                                                                                             NAA,....1,1'


                                                                                                                                                         .z IP 7.b
                                                                                                                                                                     Percent




                                                                                                                                                                 2::Z.   l'f.5
                                                                                                                                                                                   u 11.o
                                                                                                                                                                                  IZ.O ~t-5
                                                                                                                                                                                             Number


                                                                                                                                                                                                     J
                                                                                                                                                                                                    11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A =,7/.t...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Per Cent


                                                                                                                                                                                                           .2.. 'I f S
                                                                                                                                                                                                           y .;,;,. /!.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /.t 7. I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '}.JI /7.IJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                rot•


        Z..Aircrlft                6            J        q      B6 4-.3 /].'
                                                                      ,,,,., ,,,,
                                                                                             7       J       IP 9.1
                                                                                                                                                   '         7    1.r    'f.(,
                                                                                                                                                                                     ~"I
                                                                                                                                                                                   i'f /i.O
                                                                                                                                                                           at o.o ao
                                                                                                                                                                                                           7 77 /5'.1        .5.$ 71.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I 0.8 ().{) g.8
I
        3-Li&jllf'll<nocl.         0            0         /)                                  r;     0        0      tJ./!    /)/)     o.o         ~     I)        0                                       /)
                                                                t?.~
                                                                                                                                                                                      ,.,, .J.,

             _
        4-Birds                    0            0        0      c» (?,IJ t/1)                1'      /,)      0       M       0,0      ,:?.()      ~     /J        .3     J.t                        J        I       If U/.  tU 3.11.
        S-Clouds, Dus~ et,         t?           0        n       l"ln     /)/)     /J,       0       f)       0       O,l     0,0      tJ,t        1     I          I     0.0     12 /.'J.           /)   f)          0        P,0     0,/)       t?.I.
        6-i...t!i, Int,.           8'           /)       fl'    Id        ~.{)    If.I/      .$      0        :J     .r.s ,,,,, S-S              /0      0        IP /2.0          tJ.P /:1..0     ..ZI   0        ;,../      !CS      ,:).t?   lt.'i
        ..                        :z.                                                                                                                                     ao
I                                                                        ~o
        7-l'sydrolopcal                         0        ;z.    H                  :/.'}     0       0        0      t?.0     o.o       I)_,      /)     0         0              0.0    t?.O   1         tJ         2        /.(,      /J,O /.(,
                                   1            I)       'iiU'            0.1)    It'!       6       ()       I" 10.'J        I} I! ID.f         /3      0       /3      If. 7    tl.t? !f.7 39           0         3'f J0.7           0.p J0.7
        I-01lllr                   ~            I        A      7.1       1.4 8.5            7      tJ        7 JJ.           /).{)    In         J      fr       9      /.2      f.(, IO.R   .,2.        0          ,2.. 1.6          ,?,O /.t



I   ;        Total             Jlf           7-.Z.      7/J 68.6 JU 14/l.                  'Ji'    /7 5", ,f./ JO.ff /dO. .FS" >( 8'~ 66:J JJ.7 NI. Ill/-                                                 13       /;J...?    fl'I.J IP.1 /II.




I   I
              Enhsation
        0-Balloon                17
                                             Number

                                                3
                                                     #AV



                                                        ;20
                                                             Per Cent


                                                                132 2 3 If.>
                                                                                     Number


                                                                                            ,2l/     s-n
                                                                                                             JbNr
                                                                                                           Per Cent

                                                                                                                    If 3
                                                                                                                                   Nurrtler


                                                                                                                               7-7 !f.O 7/1.
                                                                                                                                                         Per Cent


                                                                                                                                                         4/ /IS"
                                                                                                                                                                 Jv,:.y
                                                                                                                                                                                 Number
                               Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total Gertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu
                                                                                                                                                                    JU {,.ff lf.O 39 39 73 '!.t 9t JU
                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,4,,"'         5r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PerCmt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Total Certain Dwblful Total


                                                                                                                                                                                  u
I       I-As1Jonomical
        2-Aircraft
        3-Licf'ltPhl!IIOm.
                                 ,)..2.
                                 /7
                                      3
                                                6 ..zt /71

                                               2- S"            n
                                                                    If. 7 119
                                              13 :JP /3 ")_ lfl I ;}J.3 ,7,f
                                                             It J.1 I
                                                                                             72     17 3'1 /'l,.0
                                                                                                    J.Z
                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                             /f()/!-3 u. ')l'f
                                                                                                              2. o. r OS /,0
                                                                                                                               'lJ -:J/3 ,If
                                                                                                                                                  -?ll

                                                                                                                                                 JJ
                                                                                                                                                         3/f 1.f    'II
                                                                                                                                                         7,2. /66 /'f.7 /I 3 '2t. t
                                                                                                                                                          JI 11          ,o
                                                                                                                                                                         0 t
                                                                                                                                                                                IS./ 113 1,s !"i /0.(, II ,J 2J.'J
                                                                                                                                                                                      41 J.; ~1 //.5
                                                                                                                                                                                       6   u
                                                                                                                                                                                                        f. t (0./
                                                                                                                                                                                          6 I ;z. /.5 15 3.fJ
                                                                                                                                                                    o.s 0.5 /. 0 ;; {) 0 IJ.O 1),0 IV
        4-Binls                    0           2         :z.     c.o I C /t                                                                               .J
                                                                                             0        0                                /J.O       "3
                                                                                                                                                                    '
                                                                                                              I)      ,j_t1    t?.O


I       S-Cloud~ Dus~ et,
        6-lnsuffic. Info.
        7-Psycllolo~cal
                                 ;,
                                   ..z.
                                  16
                                      ,...
                                               {}

                                                ,'}
                                                    0
                                                         .2.
                                                        lb
                                                          0
                                                        lg'
                                                                 /.'
                                                               17.. If
                                                                 t'.o
                                                               /If. 0
                                                                          c.o ft,
                                                                          '1,0
                                                                          IJ.()
                                                                                  11-f
                                                                                    I),
                                                                                             0
                                                                                           ~:,_
                                                                                             6
                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                     0

                                                                                                     tJ
                                                                                                              0

                                                                                                                6 J.3
                                                                                                                     t?.O
                                                                                                             ..t~- /2.0
                                                                                                                              0.0
                                                                                                                              0.0 /7.0
                                                                                                                              0.P 3.J
                                                                                                                                       t?./P      I
                                                                                                                                                7tl
                                                                                                                                                   i
                                                                                                                                                            I :z o.i 0.1. 0 I(. tJ
                                                                                                                                                           0 7/f /J.(,   0.0 //. t Iii?
                                                                                                                                                           'x Ii /.3 /-3 N           IO
                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                          0 /,JP
                                                                                                                                                                                           I II
                                                                                                                                                                                               I   P.O 0 .;i (U
                                                                                                                                                                                                  'U o.o 'f-9
                                                                                                                                                                                                  7-J o.i 77
        8-UnknoMI                              C                          t1.0 /1/.0        33      I?       3"3    1$.        t?.i) li.O       1.::zl     0 /:,./ /10    P,I) lfO   ?r   CJ 79 19.'f ,J.o tr.I(-

I   I
        9-0ther


             Total
                                   I

                               /Pl ;t.f
                                               7--       1 'f-7 I t
                                                        ,1.q 16J
                                                                                  "· 3
                                                                                              7      I        ~     3.8       0~ 1/. J

                                                                         )/.7 I oo. /117 JG 113 90.3 11-7 !QO. #70 161 631 73.7 2"'3 IJJA
                                                                                                                                                 ;J.JJ    I .,z:, '3.8 o. 2 If. 0 II s lb 1.. 7 11 3.9

                                                                                                                                                                                                  :Z.7S /~ 11-07 t7.(, ;)2.'t /di-


I                                      Number
                                               5EPT~ ~
                                                             Pet'Cent
                                                                          -                              Orr        RF'7                                 A/,,i,,-
                                                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                                                                                                                                                 Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Pre,,_ .<J = ~ H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PerCmt
    I                                                                                Number                Per Coit                Nurrter               Pet' Cent



I             Evaluahon
        II-Balloon
        I-Astronomical
                               Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu


                                 /fl
                                    b          I.Z Ii' J(,
                                                q ;. 7 l(;.F
                                                                          7J.. I0.B
                                                                          ·H JU
                                                                                             R
                                                                                            /)
                                                                                                     ;;i. :zo
                                                                                                     I~
                                                                                                              q
                                                                                                             J3
                                                                                                                               9? tto
                                                                                                                    ru /if.If ]. /.'f :z.,
                                                                                                                                                   s-        q
                                                                                                                                                         I~ <;6
                                                                                                                                                                  /fl, '17 F. r 13.'
                                                                                                                                                                      If 3 /'I 2 HI                  '
                                                                                                                                                                                                    /8
                                                                                                                                                                                                           .F /I
                                                                                                                                                                                                          /6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Total Certain Dwbtlul Total


                                                                                                                                                                                                                    :;,a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               q 1/8 IP 5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              17-1 15.-:l '3:1.3
                                                                                                                              tB It. 0                    t: /'7      /0-'f s.7 I&. I                                         ,.1 !P-5 17."J.
        2-Aucraft                13           :27
                                                        ., 7.8
                                                        1/(l             It. 3 2'11           9     II       ;20    7].                           II                                                 7    II        If


I       3-Lietit Phnm.
        4-Buds
        5-Clouds. Oust. etc.       0
                                    I
                                    I
                                                2
                                                ::2.
                                                I
                                                         3
                                                         I
                                                           H,
                                                           , r.
                                                                          /"J,
                                                                         I?.
                                                                 iJ.O 0 (.
                                                                                  18
                                                                                  18
                                                                                  0.'
                                                                                              I
                                                                                             :z :::z
                                                                                             I)
                                                                                                     7


                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                              "3
                                                                                                              If
                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                    08
                                                                                                                    It
                                                                                                                     t),O
                                                                                                                              lt H
                                                                                                                              lt, J.:Z
                                                                                                                              0 g 0.8
                                                                                                                                                  3
                                                                                                                                                    f,
                                                                                                                                                   ()     ;2
                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                  J.f 2.i 0.' J. 7
                                                                                                                                                                   0 /J,i
                                                                                                                                                                   2.
                                                                                                                                                                              "!fl
                                                                                                                                                                          IJ,I!
                                                                                                                                                                                   /J.J,
                                                                                                                                                                                   1.9     I q
                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                     /}
                                                                                                                                                                                                    t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                           tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                           t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         {)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I 0 .l'J.0 I.()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                tM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (?.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,?.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       tl.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 t?.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 t?,O
        6-tnsuff1c.lnfo.         l'f            0 I</ //.If               C.P     //"      //)       ~       /0     /?.0       O,./i   fP          7      rJ      7 .t(, O.t {..(,,                  'f   0           '1       gr,     CJ.O     9.C

I       7-Psyci..lo~cal
        8-UnknoMI
        9-0ther                   r
                                    ?
                                Ji:Z.
                                                (/
                                                /)
                                                -;z.
                                                                u0.0 1.g
                                                        liZ H.3 /I.I! 25.3
                                                        It
                                                          "J

                                                                u
                                                                /.1 (0
                                                                                              I
                                                                                            "i'O
                                                                                             7--
                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                             fp
                                                                                                              3
                                                                                                               I    o.i
                                                                                                                    711, 0
                                                                                                                    If,
                                                                                                                              ~/J


                                                                                                                              0.3 Vf
                                                                                                                                       o.B
                                                                                                                              /)_t) 2'1.4
                                                                                                                                                  If
                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                ,2..1
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                 71 /1.9 t?.P 1,,.8
                                                                                                                                                                  If
                                                                                                                                                                     0 1 0.() OJI

                                                                                                                                                                          J.b      0.(J   J.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ;1-2
                                                                                                                                                                                                    (
                                                                                                                                                                                                          /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                          ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                          0          y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    :22.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I. 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1/ 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7_r;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       O.t)      }. o/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /l. !) 1/. 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       P.D      7,?



I            Total              ///           !JS /66          ,, 'l JJ /         100.     7?! i.f-7 12..,' •J.'f 3U m. 13 .73 /Pt t';.9 3/.J Ill . 73 J.L IP.I' f,f. 5 Jo.• 100.




I
I
I
I
I                                                                                                                         123

I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
I                                          ✓ANVA/?Y                                                           F.&B'RtlARY
                                                                                                           Number                Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                                                                                #.ARC#
                                                                                                                                                                             dy        MtJ,vr,1



                                                                                                                                                                                Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                              t:?P



                                                                                                                                                                                                         Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                APR/£-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
! EYlluahon                        r.imber               Per Cent



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                           Cfflain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful: Total                           ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total certain Doubtful Total Certain   Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total

..·I-Astronomical
!O-Billoon


!2-A1rcr,fl                                                                     v--                                                          Y'                                           /.... \' .                                                              )C,,.

                                                                                                                                     ... \
    3-Li&f'II Phenom.
    t-Birds
    S-Clouds. Oust. elt.
    S-lnsufflc. Info.                                    ~
                                                              ,--.'{'
                                                               \I
                                                                            \

                                                                                         i
                                                                                         I                                \~
                                                                                                                                  ....'<
                                                                                                                                   )/

                                                                                                                                                                             I'...
                                                                                                                                                                                       ~
                                                                                                                                                                                     ,:\'
                                                                                                                                                                                      y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Y'-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '\
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
    7-Psydl>lolical
    II-Unknown
    9-0the,
                                                    ,-
                                                    .\.                                  I                                ~
                                                                                                                          '                                                  -
                                                                                                                                                                              'J                                                  \ \)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  "'                                                     I
,_                                                                                       :
          Total                                                                          i

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
    --- -         .   -
I
            Evaluation
                                          Number
                                                    ,,t-/AY
                                                                            Per Cent                     Percent
                                                                                                              Number
                           Certain; Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certaiil Doubtful Total Certain OoubtM Tot~
                                                                                                                              Tt,vr
                                                                                                                             Hunter                Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                              Jl/,t.Y
                                                                                                                                                                           Number               PerC81t
                                                                                                                      ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,t/,,,,._ vsr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                 ' uu ur.o r. o r
    jO-B~loon                      I
                                                                              I        D       I 77            0 7-7            0            o.
                                                                                                                                            !H              tIS.0      0       () 0        tJ.O     0.0 ~.O
: l•Astmnom1cal
!2-Aucraft
:3-Liatit Phtmm.
    4-Buds                            I
                                                               .'?'-
                                                                    '\
                                                                       1                             ?
                                                                                                      0

                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                     I


                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                    ;J
                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                              '.Z !fl/
                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                   0.0

                                                                                                                                   l.C
                                                                                                                               O tl.fl
                                                                                                                                             7,J 7. 7
                                                                                                                                             O.o !H
                                                                                                                                             0.0 0. 0
                                                                                                                                             IJ.0 ~-0
                                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                (}
                                                                                                                                                                      3
                                                                                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                      IJ
                                                                                                                                                                                 5'
                                                                                                                                                                                 ~
                                                                                                                                                                                 I 1s
                                                                                                                                                                                0 oo
                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.5 /').{

                                                                                                                                                                                                   0,) 2.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0 (J. 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ':!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /d q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          a.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          b.b
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          !PP -;/0.P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           11/l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /J.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           A()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                      "
:5-c1ouds, Dus~ etc.
!6-lnsuffic.lnlo.
;1-Psychoto11cal
                                      i
                                      i
                                      !             ·-
                                                 ' \J
                                                              'Y.                                     ,Q



                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                         3
                                                                                                                .0
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                    I)
                                                                                                                              0 c.o     o., t?.O
                                                                                                                               3 23} (J,[) )3.1
                                                                                                                               I 77 (I.I) 77
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            t
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                     /)
                                                                                                                                                                     'l
                                                                                                                                                                                0 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                 C /5. O
                                                                                                                                                                                z o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0. 0 P.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                   O,P If. o
                                                                                                                                                                                                   1." Ii- 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0        /).()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '.I -:/0.D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.(/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      t),/) ~UJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.0 f,g
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Q(}

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
llrUnknown
                                                '"                                                   'I         0             4 3q f tJ.[) 30 g             g        0          g ~o.o            ,?.,?      w.o       C         I>             r,    tp_ 0           /JI) (,p_q
19-0ther
I

          Total
                                                                                                      I

                                                                                                    17.
                                                                                                                0

                                                                                                                I         /'J
                                                                                                                              I   7.7 {).fl 7 7

                                                                                                                                  9J,3       n NO, 33
                                                                                                                                                            10       0

                                                                                                                                                                     7
                                                                                                                                                                             ;P 75.0 o.o 2>.0
                                                                                                                                                                             lfO      f:l.S /75 /(JO.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      'I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I         10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0     o.lJ

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      rn /Q.O 0/)'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ill p 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
    r--                            Numbet'
                                           5FPr..,...~=EP
                                                         Per Cent                Number                Per Cent
                                                                                                                    o,,..~,,      P&C",Q

                                                                                                                               Number                Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                      _,¼ V ~
                                                                                                                                                                             Number
                                                                                                                                                                                            - =
                                                                                                                                                                                                  PerCmt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .Psc,=MA~=
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
    I
            Evaluation     Certain Doubtful Total Crrtain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Ooobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu Total Certain Doubtful Total
    0-~toon                    0                0         0 O0                  o. (} o. 0            0             /)        0     o.o o.a o.o             0         (l         0        (/0        o.o 0,1           0         0              0         0.D             q,p /).0
        l•AstRJnomial         I              0            I 2o.0                u ':100               I             1         3   16.] 13.J so 0            I            I     ~      33.3 JJ.3 66,                    7         0              '.I   UOJ)                0.0 /PO.O
    2•Aimaft                  0              0           (j         o. 11 o. 0 o.o                    0             0         0     0.()     o.o 0.0 n                n         0         o.o       0.0      O.Q       ()        0               0        /J.O            (l.Q    P.I
    Hitt,11'11...._
    4-Birds
    Hloud~Ou•~•k
                              0
                               0
                               I)
                                             0
                                             0
                                             0        /)
                                                         0
                                                         0
                                                                    b. p
                                                                    0Q
                                                                     I)/,
                                                                                o. 0
                                                                                o.u u.o
                                                                                 0. 0
                                                                                              DO

                                                                                             o.o
                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                      d
                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                    (j
                                                                                                                     ()
                                                                                                                              0 o. 0
                                                                                                                              0 o.o
                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                              0 o.o
                                                                                                                                    OfJ
                                                                                                                                             0.0 oo
                                                                                                                                             ().Q
                                                                                                                                             o.o o.o
                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                      0.0   tl
                                                                                                                                                            ~
                                                                                                                                                                      ()

                                                                                                                                                                      tJ
                                                                                                                                                                     /)
                                                                                                                                                                                I

                                                                                                                                                                               /7
                                                                                                                                                                                 I)
                                                                                                                                                                                       11-3 04 n3
                                                                                                                                                                                        M (),() /J,t
                                                                                                                                                                                       CIO          t'/,/J   /J.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                L)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          o.o /).()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           P.CI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  tl.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  tJ.t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                  I          0            I 'NO tJ.o 20 O                                 0                                           Q.P            0                                                                           ~
    &-lnsuffic.lnlo.                                                                                                {'                       /',I,)         0                 ()          ,?/,    (;).(;)    ,'./l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            " 00                                                  tl,D
    7-Psycllolocical
    11-Unkno...
    !I-Other                  0
                               I
                               2            0
                                            0
                                             /;          I
                                                         1_
                                                         0
                                                               ;/o.o
                                                               'lo o
                                                                    O.;;
                                                                                 fJ.O
                                                                                 tJ.f,
                                                                                 a, o /),0
                                                                                             ,uo
                                                                                             4o.o
                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                         ~
                                                                                                          I         0
                                                                                                                    ()
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                              ~ 333
                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                               I It. 7

                                                                                                                                   0.Q
                                                                                                                                              /J,0 1,.1
                                                                                                                                             t'.v 3JJ
                                                                                                                                             Q. p /).(J
                                                                                                                                                            /')

                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            I')
                                                                                                                                                                     cJ
                                                                                                                                                                     I,)
                                                                                                                                                                     p
                                                                                                                                                                               I?
                                                                                                                                                                              ()
                                                                                                                                                                              I)
                                                                                                                                                                                          /J_/)

                                                                                                                                                                                          ~,
                                                                                                                                                                                          tJ.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                   /J.IJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                  /)/')
                                                                                                                                                                                                  -,,,,/')
                                                                                                                                                                                                             /J.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                             t:i,I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                             t)tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (}

                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (),0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          tl/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /?.,J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      t)j
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ().()


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /).()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A/,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  n.n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  p,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
          Total              s              0        5         Nie               f.o IP(}           'f              L         ~   en 33.3 /QO               2        r          3 f.t.7 -3:!J /IQ.                     2         0              1 /PP.O                   o.o /lo.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                        124
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
I
I
I                                   Number
                                             :r:..
                                                          Per Cent                                    Nunlbef               Pe, Cent
                                                                                                                                                                   N,'R('h/
                                                                                                                                                               Number                 Per Cent                Number                Per Cent
             Enlaahon        Cert•n Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total                      trtlin Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total             ertain Ooulltful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total


I   12-Aorcrlft                   O            O      b            0.0         0.0 0.0           0            0    ()     0. 0         0 0     IJ.()       0       0      0        /J.J    I.O      AA        :3    ()       3          J(),I)     d,0 ..,,,,,



I       4-Bnds
        ~Cloud~Dus~etc            o
                                      11       I)
                                               t)
    f-6-_lnsu_ff_ic_ll_fo_.-+----'l'+-___,,/)'--1     :l
                                                          tJ
                                                          o
                                                                    "·
                                                                   /Jr.

                                                                  1Q.I)
                                                                               11.0
                                                                              t).t)
                                                                              /JO Jn O
                                                                                      n~
                                                                                      ,1,,
                                                                                                 ()
                                                                                                 o
                                                                                                 6
                                                                                                          O
                                                                                                          /'J
                                                                                                              tJ     rJ
                                                                                                                     O
                                                                                                                     I)
                                                                                                                           r,I)
                                                                                                                           n.r
                                                                                                                           o.~
                                                                                                                                       o.o o.o
                                                                                                                                       o.t
                                                                                                                                     /),/)
                                                                                                                                               11,t

                                                                                                                                                /1.()     2
                                                                                                                                                           O
                                                                                                                                                           O
                                                                                                                                                                   I)
                                                                                                                                                                   O

                                                                                                                                                                   I!
                                                                                                                                                                          O

                                                                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                                                                             0    /J.O
                                                                                                                                                                                  t?,;

                                                                                                                                                                                 U-1,
                                                                                                                                                                                           l)t

                                                                                                                                                                                           ~,()

                                                                                                                                                                                           tJ.1,
                                                                                                                                                                                                    (I.()
                                                                                                                                                                                                    O,D

                                                                                                                                                                                                   .Zf6
                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                              I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /(l,tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -?,P

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /o,o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /J,tJ /0./7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   t),tJ    ,I.I)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   d.O /IJ.()
                                                      J                                                                                                                           o.P
I
        1-Psydlo1o&ica1           o           o                    o O        o. c    o. o          o         o      o     nr:        il.O      P.~       n       o          o             tJ.I! o.D          o      tJ       O           P,o      Al>     1.0
        1--•                     C            O       O            0.0         ~11 tJ.o             ()    I)         (I    40         /\"       (),o      I        I)        I i'l,3       IP./. //J.J        I      fl        I        /0,0       II/I 1/J.O
                                 0             I          I       o.D        Ill D /o,o             o     O         I)      p,,       ll0      (l,I)      Q       :Z     .1.     o.o JU, 7fl,6               0       O        O           {),()    (),I)   /)/J




I           Totll




I            Evaluahon
        0-Bllloon
                                       Numbtr                Per Cent                Number               Per Cmt
                             Certain ' Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Domtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                                     Per Cent                Nuober
                                                                                                                                                        ertain Doubtful Total Celllin Doub11u1 Total Cerllin Doublfu
                                                                                                                                                           2.     I      '3       3. 3    /1,2 l,M            p    2-.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Total Certain Doubtful Total


                                                                                                                                                                                                            z.
I                                                         1                                      O                        0. 0        n.O l)n                                                                      .:z..
        I-Astronomical          I              I                  lb,1'      /tJ.() ;/Ml                  I!        11
                                 I            O           I       t'O.O       /),I)   /tJ,I)     0        0         {)    0. 0         0-0      ti.()     4        2     6 /1,,.7         f."3 :i.,~          I     I
    il·Lirhl Phenom.              0           '2          ~        0.0      'Zn_p 20.t               O    /          I    0. O '33.3 33.                   I       O     I        .u.>     "·"      JJ.,      0     0         0            A a     h,/l      ~
    :4-Buds                                                                                                                                               ll       I     I        tJ.P     ,.,,     11.2      0      t>       ()



I       Hloud~ Dus~ etc
    :s-1nsuff1c.lnfo.
    i7-Psyct.11011cal
        S.Unkno•
                                 0
                                 .1
                                 ,'
                                              C
                                              0
                                                 ?'   0 ta0
                                                      3 31.1
                                                              u     11.P
                                                                               DO

                                                                              0. ()
                                                                                      1,0
                                                                               ,.,.., 11.P
                                                                                      I},()
                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                     o
                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                              tJ
                                                                                                              r,
                                                                                                              tJ
                                                                                                                    o
                                                                                                                    O
                                                                                                                     O     IJ.I)
                                                                                                                            ac
                                                                                                                           0.0
                                                                                                                                      D.C
                                                                                                                                       121'
                                                                                                                                      fl,n
                                                                                                                                                P.O
                                                                                                                                                atJ
                                                                                                                                                r, n
                                                                                                                                                          D
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           o
                                                                                                                                                                   fJ
                                                                                                                                                                   t)
                                                                                                                                                                  a o
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                          O       tJ.o
                                                                                                                                                                                  o.c
                                                                                                                                                                                  tJ.()
                                                                                                                                                                                           "·" l.o
                                                                                                                                                                                           /111
                                                                                                                                                                                           P,tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                     /)I)

                                                                                                                                                                                                    o.o       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                               p


                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I'>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          n.n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ltJ,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   tJ.o     /J.()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   "-" /I},/)




I   I       Total
                                 0            0       Cl           aP        ()1>     /J,t       O            r,    IJ     P,p         ().{}    11,IJ                                                         D      I        I           tJ.rJ   /tJ.P    M,0




I
I
    I EYaluation
        0-Balloon
        1-ASbunollical           0
                                              5'-
                                           Number




                                              I
                                               1
                                                      I
                                                                  - ---
                                                                   /1.0
                                                                   O.b
                                                                           Percent
                             Certain Doubtful Total Certain - I l l I Total Certain lloulllful Total Cerllio Doubllul Total
                                 0                        2                 13.3 .33.J
                                                                            1,.1 /{.?           I
                                                                                                    3
                                                                                                          -   t?.rre ,_.,,,


                                                                                                              7
                                                                                                              3
                                                                                                                   l,
                                                                                                                   4
                                                                                                                          1,0 /{() .:/0.0
                                                                                                                          S. o
                                                                                                                                   PerCt11I



                                                                                                                                      /5. 0 21>.rJ
                                                                                                                                                        ertain Doubtful Total Celllin lloulllfu1 Total Cerllin Doublfu Total Cerlli1I Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                          7
                                                                                                                                                                - A1,


                                                                                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                             J
                                                                                                                                                                                    -Per Cent


                                                                                                                                                                               .f.1 If.I /7, 'l
                                                                                                                                                                             R 1/1.1 .J. '1 1/-7.J
                                                                                                                                                                                                             'l
                                                                                                                                                                                                             '<
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   £?£/"&,¥,P~D

                                                                                                                                                                                                               Nuober



                                                                                                                                                                                                                    'I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0     ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Per Cent

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         JQS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ' l/0.S" 1/.J 31,6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  o. () /ti..>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          o.o ..5.J
        2-Aircraft                I          0        I           /(,_ 7      0,()    II.;      I         a          I .S.0           0. 0 5.0            If      ()      ~      :lH 0.0 ;235'               0      I          I                            S..J
                                 ,·
I       3-LithlPh..,._
        4-Birds
        S-Ctouds, ~st.etc.
        6-lnsuff,c.lnfo.
                                  0
                                  0
                                      (/
                                             0
                                              0
                                              r,
                                              0
                                                      0
                                                      0

                                                      (,

                                                      0
                                                                   ().P
                                                                    0.0
                                                                   c.o
                                                                   tJo
                                                                              (),(}

                                                                             (),()

                                                                              II n
                                                                              A,/l
                                                                                       (!,p
                                                                                      (},()
                                                                                      o.~ C
                                                                                      r.o 4
                                                                                                I
                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                          /)

                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                          n
                                                                                                          tJ
                                                                                                                    I 5. 0
                                                                                                                   ;l

                                                                                                                    "
                                                                                                                          s.o
                                                                                                                   II 120.0
                                                                                                                           I),(/
                                                                                                                                      on s-.o
                                                                                                                                      5'.0 /(),/)
                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                       /)/}
                                                                                                                                               P.()
                                                                                                                                               20.0
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           t)
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                 (')

                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                         ()


                                                                                                                                                                         (J
                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                  Q.O
                                                                                                                                                                                  ()J)
                                                                                                                                                                                  n,/J
                                                                                                                                                                                  f.'l
                                                                                                                                                                                          n.o
                                                                                                                                                                                           /J,/)
                                                                                                                                                                                          11.0
                                                                                                                                                                                           M
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Q.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,J.t
                                                                                                                                                                                                    o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                    f9
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             /'}

                                                                                                                                                                                                             ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                              I)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5 1n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I'.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Q,6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           o.r.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  d.Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   P,/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (),()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ().O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /J,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (J.f..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           15. fl

I       7-Psych>lo~cal
        S.Unkno•
        9-0l!ler
                                 0
                                    I


                                    Cl
                                              ()
                                              I)
                                              I
                                                          I
                                                          ()
                                                          I
                                                                  /(7
                                                                    M
                                                                   {),{)
                                                                              "·P
                                                                              {).I)

                                                                            It 7 /67
                                                                                      lo.
                                                                                       (J.P.
                                                                                                n
                                                                                                '.2
                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                          p
                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                    (i
                                                                                                                    '}
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                           ()n
                                                                                                                          ID 0
                                                                                                                           D./J
                                                                                                                                       t1 t
                                                                                                                                      0.J /I.()
                                                                                                                                      {)O  /J.IJ
                                                                                                                                                n.n       (I

                                                                                                                                                          n
                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                  /J
                                                                                                                                                                   tJ . I
                                                                                                                                                                         [)

                                                                                                                                                                         0 o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                 ).9
                                                                                                                                                                                           i?,D
                                                                                                                                                                                           {1.p
                                                                                                                                                                                          (l.t)    u
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,t;
                                                                                                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .0 0.fl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              J' 7L3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              :2. /O.f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ~!}     I'll'.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /J.t 126. 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /J.,J !OS


                                                                                                                                                                  3 /7 n,,
I           Total               './          '1
                                                      ' 33. 3 '' 7 /00.                        13         7        A,/)   ~o 35.0 /D(), I 'f                                              17.t /di.         I';     ~        If 7J.7 2., ~ m,



I
I
I
I
I                                                                                                                                  125


I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                    T,4

                                 Jt,mbef
                                              ,,    =.,
                                                              Per Cent                    Number
                                                                                                ,C~,, ,,,,.av
                                                                                                                Per Cent                                    Nu-
                                                                                                                                                                        M.,,.,..,,.
                                                                                                                                                                                  Percent                 Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AP<'/£_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PerC<Rt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                    Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
     Enluabon        Cemin Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total                   ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total

                                                    O.IJ          ,.:J. ,.i          1.        tJ          l li.Z                         If.          (}                    {)      o.o     (JO    o. 0     I            (J      I           ,. C           o. lJ s. (,
                                                                                                                                          s,, I/ d /.J J/.) 'fl.II (g_§
tBolloon                0           I          I                                                                                  /JD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -, 313 ..s.t 3~.?
1l•Astn,nomical

11-Aucraft
                         ~
                         .:.
                        i+
                                    )
                                     I
                                               7    ns 31. :/ 'IJ.7
                                           s 25.0 p J/ 1.
                                                                                     1
                                                                                     I
                                                                                              'f
                                                                                               0
                                                                                                           ~
                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                     111.2
                                                                                                                      '/. I
                                                                                                                                 31.1f
                                                                                                                                 p.lJ 'II              !J       "
                                                                                                                                                                n             ;/    lo.$     P.p lfl-S      2"        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0               1 //. I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             O.d If.I

                                                                                                   ,,                                                                                                                                                         /J.O rJ.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
3-Liatrt Phenom.         IJ            IJ   I) t>.~ tJ,I) 0.1)                           (i    0          0              tJ./.     tJ1,   (J.0          0           0        n          al   • I\    b.lJ    0            0           0
4•8i1ds                     I)          /.  0 ,,,,, On ,,,,                           0                    t?           ti.I)     0./)     "-~         1            0         2 ii.If /J.'O Jo.5             0            0           0         o.o          ().0 0,0
$-Clouds, Dus~ et~       ()             I)    0       ,11)         11/J    on         /)            {)     /)             /}j     /J,{J    J./J'        tJ      0            0 (J.{) 0.0 o.o                 ,..,     0               CJ       J()            11.r)   ;I,/)
6-lnsuffic. Mro.         ?             0       0      !J.0         ,.,. 0.0          I         0           I           '!.J t?.tJ 9./                  I       CJ            I S.3 ,1,? J.3                   <                       ~       27.8           4P (7."l
                                                      o.o 0./J 0. 0                                                                                                                                                    " p
7-PsJdl)lo~cal
8--Unkno'MI
!I-DIiie<
                        /)

                        1
                         I
                                     0
                                       ()


                                        0     {
                                               [)

                                               ~    /2.?
                                                    ,... u         /)O fl.(
                                                                          ,.2.
                                                                                     0
                                                                                     0
                                                                                     I
                                                                                              ()

                                                                                              0
                                                                                                0

                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                           ()
                                                                                                               lJ      M' /)./) /J.j
                                                                                                                       n.o
                                                                                                                      "· I
                                                                                                                                 /JII

                                                                                                                                 0.0 f//
                                                                                                                                           h/J         I
                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                        tJ
                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                0

                                                                                                                                                               ()
                                                                                                                                                                             0

                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                  tJ.O (J.tJ tJ.1
                                                                                                                                                                                    s: 3
                                                                                                                                                                                     o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                             AA     ,5.,3
                                                                                                                                                                                             o. 0 u.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             3
                                                                                                                                                                                                             a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      :J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0./J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              {6. 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ().d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,:J.I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ~~ /&.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,?./)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      o. 0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      o.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                    u, 17.lf 'Od.
' Total                '!           7        /1,    ff2 .lfJJ /QO.                  7         If         JI          ,s, 3H /91.                     /0        'I          I 'I                             /7        I          IS '1'1.'I                  r.t /Id.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
I
      Evaluation
 0-Balloon              11
                                 Number


                                     0
                                             .k/4 y

                                              'I 13.$
                                                               Percent

                                                                  (JO
                                                                            Number


                                                                          /]8        I          0
                                                                                                         ,T, U r -
                                                                                                  Per Cent
                     Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu I Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Ooubtlul Total
                                                                                                          I           n           v. 0 ,f.J
                                                                                                                                                            Nurrtler
                                                                                                                                                                         .·Tu
                                                                                                                                                     ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total certain lloubtfu
                                                                                                                                                          I         0         I
                                                                                                                                                                                    r
                                                                                                                                                                                  Per Cent


                                                                                                                                                                                    (.. 7    P. 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Number


                                                                                                                                                                                                             0             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,t/,,/ u:T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0           Q.I           o., O.P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                     '·/
                                                    ,o 7 ,.r ':J7.t
 l•Asbonomical
 2--Airmfl
Hi-.lPIHIIOII.
                        ~
                        4
                        l'J
                                     3
                                     0
                                        2.    {?

                                              7
                                              ()
                                                    JJ.9 //}.J Jll.t
                                                     o.o 0-0 o.o
                                                                                     {
                                                                                      (
                                                                                      tJ
                                                                                               3
                                                                                               I
                                                                                                ~
                                                                                                         'I-
                                                                                                          ~
                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                       9., 1).0 3JJ
                                                                                                                       ~- 3
                                                                                                                       o.O
                                                                                                                                 8.J 1,.c
                                                                                                                                  o. d     o.o
                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                        n
                                                                                                                                                          (J    4
                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                             4
                                                                                                                                                                              3 0.0 'JO,O
                                                                                                                                                                              (J
                                                                                                                                                                                    o.o 'Jc. 7 7'-1

                                                                                                                                                                                     o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                    ~O.I
                                                                                                                                                                                             40 • o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                             {
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I    I I,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '.(
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3 'IP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0 o. 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               'I. fl C4.0 CR.n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3o J:U
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             O.(}   Q. 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                             c. 7 f.7
4-Binls
                         " 0         ()       0      ,ao V.f) ~.IJ                    /)            ()         /';     o.o 0.0              (9.1,       0           I          I    nn                           c;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       "              0            0.0         tP.O O.P
>Clouds, Dus~ et~
6-lnsuffic. ~to.
l•Psycmlopal
                         tl
                        '5
                        ,.0
                                     t?
                                     0
                                               0
                                              5 17- <
                                               a
                                                      (l_(J


                                                      ao
                                                                   P,() Q./j
                                                                  IJ D /7.1,
                                                                  11.0     ,I.I)
                                                                                     I?
                                                                                      ')

                                                                                      I
                                                                                               0
                                                                                              t)
                                                                                               tJ         I
                                                                                                           ~
                                                                                                              I?

                                                                                                                      "·
                                                                                                                         t.c     OP
                                                                                                                                In
                                                                                                                      8. 3 /P,p f3
                                                                                                                                  ,1p
                                                                                                                                           11.D        0
                                                                                                                                                       3
                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                0

                                                                                                                                                                ()
                                                                                                                                                                             ()

                                                                                                                                                                            (J
                                                                                                                                                                               (J. 0
                                                                                                                                                                             3 20.0
                                                                                                                                                                                     11.d
                                                                                                                                                                                             O. D 0. 0
                                                                                                                                                                                              C/0 20.0
                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             2
                                                                                                                                                                                                             {.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0         ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '.<
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                P.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               f.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               fl. 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             o.o IJ.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             O.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             O.P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      iP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
fl.Unlmo111                         /)         J 17.1             /) ()   /7.1        I        /)         I           {(3 /Jn i.3                      ?        I)           t      I 3. 3   /)7)   IJ.3     I         ()              I      If. 0          0.0 1/.P
9-0lller


    Total
                        0
                      1'1          t
                                    0          0 0.0

                                             :Z'/ 81.!
                                                                  0.0

                                                                17] /{}I),
                                                                           o. 0
                                                                                    8
                                                                                     I         (J


                                                                                              '-I
                                                                                                          I

                                                                                                         /'2
                                                                                                                      g.~ 0.0 3

                                                                                                                     en 33.3 No.
                                                                                                                                          c.
                                                                                                                                                      7
                                                                                                                                                       I

                                                                                                                                                                5'
                                                                                                                                                                    0        J      ~-7

                                                                                                                                                                            ,r '10 S'J.3 /10.
                                                                                                                                                                                             o.o ,.7

                                                                                                                                                                                                            7
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      19 u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I?          0       o. ,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              25'.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             d.d (}. p

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IJ./ /rJO.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                        ')£pr -
                                                                   -                           ('/,-7,,, , 0 , , - , 0                                                  .,-v.,,.,          --                         r,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -     ·,;;,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
I                            Number                Percent                 Number                Per Coil                                                   Nurrtler              Per Cent                Number                               PerCenl
      Evah,ation
 0-Balloon
                     Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubllll Total Certain Doubtlul Total Certain Doubtful Total
                        I               0      I    33. 3 0. 8 '3J.3
                                                     0.1 0.0 o. 0
                                                                                     0         0           ()         0.0         q,Q      0.1
                                                                                                                                                     ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu
                                                                                                                                                        0           I         I 0,0 C.3 H
                                                                                                                                                                             8 13. 3 33. 3 ?t,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      If-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Total Certain Doubtful Tola!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I   ,.7            IJ.IJ    67      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '
 l•ASbunomical           0              q     0                                       I        '1         4 It./ 'H.3 1/'l.'1                          J/       'I-                                          2                                /3- 3        ,t,.(, 3?.1
2·Aircratt               0           0        0       o.o o.o o.o                     I        I          2 //.J  I I.I 1:/.2                          0        I            I 0.0 9.3 $.;                   l        p               1 13. 3                o.o /1.3
3-Li-.l l'llsm.
4-Binls
Hlouds,llust,etc.
                         0
                         {)
                         (}
                                     0
                                     0
                                        /)    0
                                              0
                                               0
                                                      0.IJ
                                                      11,/1 0.0
                                                                 0 0
                                                                0,0
                                                      rt.O 0.0 o.p
                                                                          o.o         0
                                                                                      0
                                                                                         0     0
                                                                                                          0 o.o o.g o.o
                                                                                               " 0 o.o P.O o.o
                                                                                               0
                                                                                                           0            /P.O     q_d      n.o
                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                        {)

                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                n
                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                              0 0. 0 0. 0 o.O
                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                             /J
                                                                                                                                                                                     o.o     1.10 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                     n.o o.o tJO
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           r)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I). 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,:J.n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IJ.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              tJ,/J o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /){)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             t?,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /).{)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      tl.P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
 6-tnsuffic. ~to.        1.         I)         ;z
                                                    ' 7 ~"
                                                            tn                       !l.        0          :? ni                  aP n.i               0        C)            /)     o.o ()J o.o                 J     (')            I        C-7           ap ,. 7
 1-Psycholopal
fl-Unlmolll
9-0tlle,
                        Q
                         (J


                         Q
                                    0
                                    0
                                        0

                                               0
                                                0 'p.o
                                               f)
                                                        O:o 0-,
                                                      o.o
                                                      OJI
                                                                  ~n
                                                                  0.0
                                                                          o.n
                                                                          ,.n
                                                                                      fJ
                                                                                      I
                                                                                      0
                                                                                                j
                                                                                                0 I
                                                                                                0         0
                                                                                                           tl           O}
                                                                                                                     IJ I
                                                                                                                      0.0
                                                                                                                                  0.0
                                                                                                                                 /J n I/. I
                                                                                                                                 o.o 0.0
                                                                                                                                          O.fl         0
                                                                                                                                                       1
                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                /'J
                                                                                                                                                                0           ()
                                                                                                                                                                              0   ll.O 11.0 u.o 0
                                                                                                                                                                             ,:; /t.7 d.Ll 10 :f_
                                                                                                                                                                                     0. 0     R.O (}.O       -;/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0           q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ')
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Q.Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              24. 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /3. 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             to n.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             l)p 'J.o.p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /J.I) 13.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
    Total               3          0           3 Jdd.O            0 0 !PP.          r         Lj          1           rr.r. 'fl/} 00·                 ~        6           11.      S"QO fO. 0 !OP.         II        4- /5                   73.3 71,,.7 loo.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                             126
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
·1
I
I                                          rA
                                      rtimbef
                                                      LJ?f'

                                                            Per Cent
                                                                                         C.r- ~- A =f'
                                                                                    Number                Per Cent
                                                                                                                                      ~=CH
                                                                                                                                  Number                Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                    A.o&>/L
                                                                                                                                                                                Number                Pe,Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     t,9S:t2



              Evaluatton      Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total ~ertain Doubtful Total Certain DoubHul Total i;ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain DoubHul Tlrt~


I        IJ.Balloon
     /)·ASIIUflOffllCII

     12-Aucratt
                                  0
                                 {"
                                          I)
                                              1
                                                 0 0.0

                                                       ,.
                                                                Od 0(/
                                                       q '3F5 HI (,/(,
                                                                lf'f
                                                                                 'Z

                                                                              p.O lf'f
                                                                                         t'J 1 />.if /),() lf'f
                                                                                             z          'l      J
                                                                                                                ;I.
                                                                                                                      /{'I
                                                                                                                      If.If
                                                                                                                               J
                                                                                                                                 n.1 l:iB.5
                                                                                                                                  O,P If/,
                                                                                                                                             C 17.9 ]., Ji)
                                                                                                                                                      'I
                                                                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                                                                                p
                                                                                                                                                                 I                  p I
                                                                                                                                                                          tf /11.j 0.0 l'f.3
                                                                                                                                                                          7 110.1 1'13 uo
                                                                                                                                                                                                 7.1 1),0 71         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     fl         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 p         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ':l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7/        fl.lJ 7. I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            t1. (J 'J'f. 3
                                 ')           0                                               '.1      0
                                                                                                                                                                "0                                                                           J'l.3


I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0 o. n                    0.0
         3-L,rt,1 Phenom.            ~        0         0         aP          1\,0    P.I      11       C        I?    120         /},0     ,1,b         ()                 I)       0.P           ().0       d,P    0              0                       ,1,(7
     4-Bnds                          C            ~     C         .ao          p.o     n,               0              I)./)                ao        0          0           ()      /J,6          (),()     0.0     0              (J     (j    o. p       0. p IJ.6
         ~Clouds, Dusl etc.      0            £,        0         0.D          0.0    tJ.o
                                                                                              "'C     ()
                                                                                                                 ()

                                                                                                                 6     t).O
                                                                                                                                  JJ.()
                                                                                                                                  tJ,/)    1).0       0          I)         0        IJ.O          0. ~ 0 p           0          0          0     11.0      /),/)     tJ./)
                                                           I     7,                   77                                                   1.7           (,                         '}/,4                   J./.'f   '3                    3 '211/-
         6-lnsuffic. -.1r>.           I       (l                               /Jn             I       I)        I     7-7         0,1                         I)
                                                                                                                                                                           "                       /'),I)                        0                            Ol :II.If


I        7-Psydl>lolical
         1-l)llmo•
         ~111..
                                 I
                                 I
                                     0        p
                                              ~
                                              ()       I
                                                        0
                                                        1 77
                                                                 O. 0

                                                                77
                                                                              ().{,
                                                                              (),t7-7
                                                                              0.0 17
                                                                                      o,o

                                                                                             1
                                                                                               v
                                                                                               I
                                                                                                       tJ
                                                                                                      /)
                                                                                                      t')
                                                                                                                 0

                                                                                                                '2
                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                       OJ)
                                                                                                                       7.7
                                                                                                                      15.lf
                                                                                                                                  M
                                                                                                                                   0.0
                                                                                                                                         7.1
                                                                                                                                            /),/)


                                                                                                                                  (}.p If_ If
                                                                                                                                                      r;
                                                                                                                                                      i/
                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                ()
                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                           If
                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                    II/'
                                                                                                                                                                                     O.b
                                                                                                                                                                                         /JI.      tM
                                                                                                                                                                                                   /J,I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                   H
                                                                                                                                                                                                              /!P
                                                                                                                                                                                                            l'f.J
                                                                                                                                                                                                            u        ' '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I 7.f

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /fJ.'f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0- R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ()~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            P,{) 1/l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /1,n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7./

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        't


                                                                                                                                                    n
I            Total             10            3        n 7ti1/. '23.J IIJp.                   IP       '3       / 3    7{,.~     23.I /PP.                       r.        J9        1n 'l.H !PO. /'I                             0 l't IPI.G                Q 0 o(),




I              Evaluation
                                           Number
                              Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Oold>tful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                              ('            1   /Lf.3
                                                                          Per Cent


                                                                              oo /'{.3       Lf
                                                                                                    Number


                                                                                                      tJ
                                                                                                               T.u.,,-


                                                                                                                If ((.7
                                                                                                                               Per Cent


                                                                                                                                  IU        ,u
                                                                                                                                                              Nuntler
                                                                                                                                                                          Ju,._y
                                                                                                                                                    ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certan Ooubtfu
                                                                                                                                                         I       O          I        ,.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                Per Cent


                                                                                                                                                                                                   OP        (.7     "2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A rtJJT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Number


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ()        1.    10.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Per Cmt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Total Certain Doobtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            o.o rq.o

I        l•Asbonomical
         2-Aircraft
         3-Liehl Phenom.
         4-Birds
                                 I
                                 0
                                 (l
                                 0
                                             O
                                              I
                                              ()

                                              0
                                                        '.< llf.3 l'f.J2G,(,
                                                       n o.o OP 0.1
                                                       !I
                                                       (}
                                                             O,o u.o o_p
                                                                 t).(I        0-0     0.0
                                                                                             O
                                                                                             0
                                                                                              0
                                                                                              0
                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                      O O
                                                                                                      O O
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                0


                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                       M
                                                                                                                       t)./)
                                                                                                                       o.o
                                                                                                                       11.6
                                                                                                                                  /l,I)
                                                                                                                                  0,0
                                                                                                                                  0.0
                                                                                                                                   ,1.P
                                                                                                                                             O.f,
                                                                                                                                            Of!
                                                                                                                                            P-4
                                                                                                                                            /1.0
                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                      ff
                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                      I'\
                                                                                                                                                                 fl

                                                                                                                                                                 (J
                                                                                                                                                                (I
                                                                                                                                                                     I    5 Ui b-7'3J.'f
                                                                                                                                                                          Q Q.O !H o.o
                                                                                                                                                                          O
                                                                                                                                                                            I        ,.7
                                                                                                                                                                                     b,7


                                                                                                                                                                            0.0 A ti fO
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Q.p                /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                tf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                r1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SUP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 :f.O

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P-0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (l,P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2o() 2~P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            f.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (}. 0 u-0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /).P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1<,Q


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /J.C


I        6-lnsuff,c.lnfo.
         7-Psyctmlo1ic.al
         8-UnknoYIII
                                  0
                                     o        .;J

                                              c
                                                       O

                                                           o
                                                                 0-0

                                                                  tJ.1,
                                                                              O.o 0.0

                                                                              o.tJ    ,.,,
                                                                                              a

                                                                                              o
                                                                                                       IJ

                                                                                                       o
                                                                                                                 o
                                                                                                                 I}
                                                                                                                        tl.O

                                                                                                                       o.o
                                                                                                                                   tJ.o t).tJ

                                                                                                                                   tJ.IJ    o.n
                                                                                                                                                      t1

                                                                                                                                                      11
                                                                                                                                                                cJ

                                                                                                                                                                 o        11
                                                                                                                                                                            /"J      P.0

                                                                                                                                                                                     o.t
                                                                                                                                                                                                  o.O

                                                                                                                                                                                                   oo o.u
                                                                                                                                                                                                            00

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         o      tJ

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           O

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   o,t

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             o.O 0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            o.o       o.o

I    '
         9-0ther


             Tot~
                                  O           t         I        00 l'f-3 11/3                0       O         Q     o.n        0-0       1/.Q          ~       IJ         n        P-0 P.O                 0.0     I          O           I    5.0        q_o ,S.0




I        I                                  5,,,.c,,_                     -                            /Jr T,>         ~=                                            1V>,           --      -,,-,:,                           ,/,?~,.-~AA"'&"R

     I                                Number               Per Cont                Number               Per Cent                Nuntier               Per Cent               Number                                                                       PerCmt


I              Evaluation     Certain DoubHul Total Certain DoubHul Total Certain lku>lful Total c.rtain Dooblful Total Certain DoubHul Tot.al Certain DoubHul Total Certain DoubHu                                                       Total Certain DoubHul Total
         0-Balloon                   0        0        0        0.0           ru O.P          I         0        I    /QO o.Q IP.P                       2       0          '.)     k7 0. 0 IO                       2          '3        5 118 11., ':i'l.'1
         l•Astrunomical           ~           (}       5'       1i5 0. 0 11-5                 I         I        i    //J.O /P.Q           ')()_,        0       Cl         C        o. a O.p o.,                    ti         ?.         6 '.23.5 /J.i 3.f.,
         2-Aircraft                  J       0         '.1      IS.fl-      4.0   /5.t/       0         I        I      o., /1,Q ID.P                 :2.        1          'f 1'.7 It.. 7 'JJ.11                    I         /}          I H       0,0 .5. 'I

I        Hiet,tPh.,..,.
         4-Birds
         I-Cloud~ Dust.el~
                       ~'°-
                                     .;
                                     ,1
                                     ,';
                                             0
                                             0
                                               l
                                                       0
                                                       (}
                                                       ,)
                                                                 .1.)
                                                                 ,),J


                                                                :m
                                                                  /J.P
                                                                              0,0 O 0
                                                                              o.a a.a
                                                                              /l,/l rl.11
                                                                                              ti
                                                                                              0
                                                                                               ()
                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                       o.o o.o
                                                                                                                       o.o
                                                                                                                       0.0
                                                                                                                                 (1,0
                                                                                                                                  o.o o.o
                                                                                                                                            0.0
                                                                                                                                            0-0       0
                                                                                                                                                         0

                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                 I)
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                            0 (/,O (/. 0 o. 0
                                                                                                                                                                            0 tJ.o J.O ,1.0
                                                                                                                                                                            0            (1,0       0.0 d.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               o.o 0,0 00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  11,n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             fl,()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            tJ.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ao ,sq
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,1,()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,1,()
         6-lnsuff1c.                 1       tJ       3                       tJ,/) 23./       0           0    (} Po            ,")/}      6,0          I           {)         I    81             at) 8.3              I          ()     I     ,S'.9


I        7-Psyd,)lolie,I
         8-Unkno•
         9-0lhei
                                  3
                                  0
                                     0
                                             ;J
                                             0
                                              0        ()
                                                        3 231
                                                       /}
                                                                 o.o

                                                                 o.o
                                                                               t?.o o.o
                                                                              t?,IJ 2J.I
                                                                              o. p    o.o
                                                                                              C
                                                                                              (.

                                                                                               0
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                      /)

                                                                                                      ()
                                                                                                                 0 00
                                                                                                                 l
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                      too
                                                                                                                       o.o
                                                                                                                                  11,{J
                                                                                                                                  /)/')

                                                                                                                                  P.p P. P
                                                                                                                                            O-e
                                                                                                                                           1,n.o
                                                                                                                                                      (J
                                                                                                                                                      q.
                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                     0

                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                      o.o
                                                                                                                                                                     0 If 33.'3 ,1/J H~
                                                                                                                                                                     ()
                                                                                                                                                                            0        0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                     8.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                    /),()


                                                                                                                                                                                                   !.{J      i-3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 f)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I    5.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 11.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,f.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            t?,p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /) /,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Sf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /J.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /1.t? S.'J



I            Total             13            0        I 3       100.0         o.o /QO.       5'        ';I     IO b'OO 30.o JtJP. /0                             ~        I~        83.3 1, 7 //JO. /2                         5' /7 70,?                   m lt!O.


I
I
I
I
I                                                                                                                              127

I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                   ,/A
                                   ,.,_
                                               .,,.      L::::>J./


                                                      Per Cent                                   Number
                                                                                                        ~£-                ,,,.,,_,;,,,,
                                                                                                                       Per Cent                Nu-
                                                                                                                                                                       /4,/,,J
                                                                                                                                                                     Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                 c-
                                                                                                                                                                                             Number                Percent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A.o,,,,,/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        l,?5/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
       Enluation        Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total                     ertain Doubtful Tola\ Certain Doubtful Tola\ ~ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doublful Total Certain Doubtful Tolal Certain Doubtful Tola!
 ~Balloon                  J          I             3 It I J. t /1.7                        I               0     I         If. I M //./                  0      p         tJ  Q0            o.
                                                                                                                                                                                        0 /./)                 p       /1         I)          /,I)        /).t     /J.P
11-Astiuno,iical            :        7              '3   St           II. I 11.7            0           i        ;z.         0.0 2.n .,,,2                I      I          2 /!,. 7 /6-7 :JJ.~                n       (J         d           /?{)       {),d      /J,{)
 2-Ancrlft                 0         '2.         '2         jr, //./ l/1./                  0           3         'i'        o.P 3n 3:l,J                 0      I          I     /),(}     /l,7 //.]              I       0      I          U..1       M         s:J.3
                                                                         ,..,,
 H•&fll"""'°".
 4-Birds
 S-Clouds. Dust. etc.
 6-lnsuffic. Ink!.
                            r;

                            I'
                           ,;
                              (l
                                          ~
                                         /)

                                         r,
                                         r,
                                                   r,

                                                  /)
                                                    ~



                                                 5 1:77.8
                                                             ().t
                                                             0.0
                                                             \'
                                                                         A,



                                                                        c.~
                                                                        tr.O 271
                                                                                  41)
                                                                                   a,,
                                                                                  JJ.J      0
                                                                                                (,
                                                                                                r

                                                                                                0       ()
                                                                                                            I)

                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                     ()

                                                                                                                     17
                                                                                                                     (')

                                                                                                                     /l
                                                                                                                             c.o
                                                                                                                              OJ.
                                                                                                                              O.P
                                                                                                                             o.o
                                                                                                                                       0.0
                                                                                                                                       nn
                                                                                                                                      P.O O.t)
                                                                                                                                      {),/J -'·P
                                                                                                                                                 /uJ
                                                                                                                                                t7 t
                                                                                                                                                          ()
                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                          r;
                                                                                                                                                          q
                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                  (J tJ
                                                                                                                                                                 t?
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                      p
                                                                                                                                                                       0


                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                  0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                   tJ.t
                                                                                                                                                                                    /J.(,
                                                                                                                                                                                    /J.O
                                                                                                                                                                                              ao 0~
                                                                                                                                                                                              1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                             p,(J
                                                                                                                                                                                             ~,d I).()
                                                                                                                                                                                                      /).I}
                                                                                                                                                                                                      /l./)
                                                                                                                                                                                                               (J
                                                                                                                                                                                                               q
                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ()

                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ()

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               /).(,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               d.d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /J.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            t.J.... 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        t).p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         II~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ()_t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         f'l() A#,7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /).0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R.P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /J/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
 7-Psydlololical
 8-Udlno..,
 !1-0llle,
                           ii
                           I
                            (]        0
                                      0
                                      0
                                                 (J
                                                 tf
                                                    I
                                                         n,
                                                           0.0

                                                          s.,
                                                                        /J,01
                                                                       (?,{)
                                                                        00
                                                                                   f•/,
                                                                                 1;/.
                                                                                  (j
                                                                                            I
                                                                                             0

                                                                                            '2
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                        ()



                                                                                                       I)
                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                     I Ill
                                                                                                                 .z 17..J.
                                                                                                                              O.t!     r,:
                                                                                                                                       t),p //,/
                                                                                                                                       tJ.O p,
                                                                                                                                                 ,,.,     C
                                                                                                                                                          3
                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                  0          0
                                                                                                                                                                           '.3
                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                    ti.ti
                                                                                                                                                                                 50.P
                                                                                                                                                                                   t?.t?
                                                                                                                                                                                             11.(J    l<O
                                                                                                                                                                                             t?.t? .J"/J.O
                                                                                                                                                                                             /J.tl IJ./)      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                               (l
                                                                                                                                                                                                               (l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       i)         ti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (J

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IJ.P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               P.b
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ()_I)  IJ,tl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         C'P ().I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ~-P        d.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
      Total              ,3          5 • 1a 7:;.2 27.9 /{}Q,                               'I-         5          9        '11/.'J    rr.t1100.          'I      z
                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                                                                                                 ,, 7 33.3 /00,               3        0          '.l       /11.0        M /di.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
I
I
'       Evaluation
[~Balloon
                                             A..4.v

                        Certain Doubtfu I Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Ooublful Total Certain lloublhl Tola\ ~ertain Doubtfu I Tola\ Certain Doubtful Tola\ Certin Doubtfu Tola! Certain Doubtful Total
                            I
                                Number


                                         0
                                                       Per Cent


                                                  I 7f.O                 /'If
                                                                               Number

                                                                                 .,,.,,      0
                                                                                                     PerCe,t


                                                                                                            C
                                                                                                                 r;


                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                           f,c

                                                                                                                             Nuntier


                                                                                                                              t),O      Ao ,u
                                                                                                                                                    PerCenl


                                                                                                                                                          0           Q
                                                                                                                                                                          1/1·L.Y
                                                                                                                                                                           Number


                                                                                                                                                                            /l    p0
                                                                                                                                                                                                PerCmt


                                                                                                                                                                                             0-0 0.0               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           A,.,,eu_~ T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I      :z t.2                6.:Z l.:Z,t/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
II-As-mica\
!2-Aircrafl
ll·li&fll Phmom.
!4-Birds                   n
                            I
                            ~
                                      0
                                      Ci
                                      I
                                          0      0 1.0
                                                 I ;zS:t)
                                                ()
                                                  I
                                                            ().()
                                                                        ~-0
                                                                        /1.I)
                                                                       t).()
                                                                                  1/,I)
                                                                                 z-.p
                                                                                  {),()
                                                                                            C
                                                                                            I
                                                                                            0
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                       (J
                                                                                                       f)
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                              O.P
                                                                                                                           /QI 0
                                                                                                                              /lf.
                                                                                                                                       l.t {).()
                                                                                                                                      o.r. Vop.t
                                                                                                                                       r,/        M
                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                          I)
                                                                                                                                                                  7
                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                  {)
                                                                                                                                                                            3 llt5 i.r.o 37 ~
                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                           tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                 l/'l-5
                                                                                                                                                                                   o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                   u
                                                                                                                                                                                             0,/J /:?.!
                                                                                                                                                                                             /),0     t),b
                                                                                                                                                                                                               fl
                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,'.{
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              p,o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             t.':J.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                a~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         t?.o P.t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4t? £. 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (. 2 11..'I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                            C,O '2r.l :ZS:/.                    ()          0     f)           111!    tJ.o      ti,()    0      0         t1                /,I)     (1,r;     /)         0            0                 ao        nb
                                                             ,,,,
is-clouds. Dust, etc.
l&-1nsuffi~ ~lo.
J1-Psycholo1ical
                           I
                            (·
                           (}
                                      r

                                      v
                                         t'J
                                         r
                                                  0
                                                 r,
                                                 C
                                                    I ;z,.o
                                                             /J.(l
                                                                  Pf! p,,
                                                            tJ,0 /.C P.O
                                                                        /l,h     n.o
                                                                                             ()
                                                                                             0
                                                                                             ()
                                                                                                       ;j'
                                                                                                        t?
                                                                                                            0     Cl
                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                              ""'
                                                                                                                             O.r.
                                                                                                                              1),1)
                                                                                                                                       ao
                                                                                                                                       t2t7
                                                                                                                                       tl.()
                                                                                                                                                 /J.o
                                                                                                                                                 o.n
                                                                                                                                                 Ml
                                                                                                                                                          r,
                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                 11
                                                                                                                                                                 t?
                                                                                                                                                                 ,,
                                                                                                                                                                 J
                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                            n
                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                             ~
                                                                                                                                                                                   M
                                                                                                                                                                                   M ao 11,0
                                                                                                                                                                                   0,0 1/.).,5 f:J.,,
                                                                                                                                                                                 ir.o
                                                                                                                                                                                             P.o      P,0



                                                                                                                                                                                                     :is,
                                                                                                                                                                                                               3
                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0   ()


                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /)     3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     p

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (2(,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             lf.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ().0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ().0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         a11 IU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IJ,()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,,,/)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
l&-unknoWIII                                                            £',l I <IS,0        0           0            p        /).O     IJ.C!     tl.O     2                                 /)I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                               7       C)            ? 1/J. 8               ii'J.~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /) I)

19-0lller
I
      Tolll               3
                           G          r,

                                      I        II
                                                 0          PO


                                                         1f.O 15.0 /()f.
                                                                        tl.O      M         0

                                                                                            I
                                                                                                         0

                                                                                                         ()
                                                                                                                  tJ

                                                                                                                  I 1111-0
                                                                                                                             I),       t!J./J


                                                                                                                                      oo /00·
                                                                                                                                                 ao
                                                                                                                                                         s
                                                                                                                                                          I      /)


                                                                                                                                                                 '.3
                                                                                                                                                                            I /;z.!i

                                                                                                                                                                            9
                                                                                                                                                                                            tl.O /:J,S

                                                                                                                                                                                  h.J .J7,J /H.
                                                                                                                                                                                                               I

                                                                                                                                                                                                              /'I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                       :<
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I      £.')

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /I, 97.! ;g /()1.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0,/J 6,)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                   5rPT,:,,_-u~;;,                                                   t"J.,. TA L:> - ~                                           A/p,_,;,~-=-~,:,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,,...,_              ----
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
I Evaluation                       Number                            Percent                        Per Cent
                                                                                                     Nurrter                Nul!Der               PerCenl                Number               Per Cent

 ~Balloon
 1-Asbonoancal
 2-Aircraft
                        Cer11in Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tola\ Certain Do,mtful Total Certain Dooblfu\ Tola\ Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tola\ Certin Doubtfu Tola! Certain Doubtful Total
                           I
                          .2
                           I
                                   t
                                      I
                                     ('
                                          I     t-7 0. Q (: I
                                                 'l /1.3
                                                 I        n
                                                                       t7 /1011.,
                                                                       0.0
                                                                                  0 J 53 M 5. 3 0

                                                                                  6,i
                                                                                             (

                                                                                            J;
                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                            0               ~,., u
                                                                                                                  6 7(-3 5-3 3/.6
                                                                                                                  Lf
                                                                                                                                       I

                                                                                                                                     it I
                                                                                                                                                Q f. 3 \j,.)
                                                                                                                                                         4
                                                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                                                                                 't
                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                  I  I      (J I

                                                                                                                                                                            ;z
                                                                                                                                                                                  o.
                                                                                                                                                                                   ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                        IM /l,() l/o,n
                                                                                                                                                                            8 333 J:l.J ti.,
                                                                                                                                                                                   0. O1/6'.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                               2
                                                                                                                                                                                                               3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3 .),0,/) /1,t? 31),1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3 $(),Q ao lrt,/l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
 3-Li&htPhmom.
 4-Buds
~ouds. Dusi. etc.
                           C
                           I\
                           r;
                                     C
                                     C
                                      C
                                                n
                                                r
                                                 (J
                                                           0. 0
                                                            0-0
                                                           a,1
                                                                       Q.0
                                                                       o.o
                                                                        04
                                                                                 {),0
                                                                                  0,()
                                                                                  {).()
                                                                                            0
                                                                                            /)
                                                                                            0
                                                                                                        ()
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                        (}
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                 I)

                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                            0. 0 O.q 0.0
                                                                                                                            o.o o.o ?.P
                                                                                                                            /J,/ 0.0 {),(]
                                                                                                                                                          ()

                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                         t?
                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                  ;J
                                                                                                                                                                  ()
                                                                                                                                                                           ()


                                                                                                                                                                            ,,
                                                                                                                                                                            t?
                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                    IJ,
                                                                                                                                                                                    tin
                                                                                                                                                                                             ().O
                                                                                                                                                                                             f).()
                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                     o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ao
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ao
                                                                                                                                                                                                              I)

                                                                                                                                                                                                               (?
                                                                                                                                                                                                               C,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (),()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              f)(\

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             t}j
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /J,()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /),;'}

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,P,o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /),()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   "(11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /Jn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
 6-lnsuff,c.lnfo.           ?         I)         ;l.     /J. 3         /J.()     IJ,3       0           ()       0          o.o        ,J,()    l),t)     I       ()        I      ?,3       t),()   i.3       I           0          I     10,tl        O.t /0,J
17-Psycholocical
 11-Unkno•
ICJ.-Ottier               ~
                           (',



                           '
                                     0
                                     0
                                     0
                                                "I, 14P. 0
                                                2
                                                          1).0


                                                         13., 0 O /J,3
                                                                       (l,O      /). 0
                                                                       /),,, 1/0.()
                                                                                            'i
                                                                                            g
                                                                                            0
                                                                                                        t'J
                                                                                                        /]
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                 8 11/:/t
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                            Q.~


                                                                                                                           0.0
                                                                                                                                       IJ./) /),()
                                                                                                                                      tJ.o 11,1. I
                                                                                                                                      o. p tJ,()
                                                                                                                                                         fl
                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                         /)
                                                                                                                                                                 CJ
                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                 (J
                                                                                                                                                                           p
                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                           ()
                                                                                                                                                                                   U.D
                                                                                                                                                                                  Q.g
                                                                                                                                                                                  0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                             /)_I)
                                                                                                                                                                                             /Jn
                                                                                                                                                                                            '1.b
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,1.n
                                                                                                                                                                                                     tJ,O
                                                                                                                                                                                                     /,()     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                       "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       tJ          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /(},/}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IO.()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             O,o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tJ,(J

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ao IO.IJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         r,r,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ltJ 0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ID,O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
      Tolll             I "t         I         H '133                 n No. /8                         I         If 'In J'. 3 !PO.                       7       5 1/2 S3.J 'f/7 JOI.                         'I       /         I0          9(),0      /0,D 110.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                  128
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
I
I
I                                         J:, ,vv,-, ff r
                                         Number               Per Cent
                                                                                                             rr.--
                                                                                                        Number
                                                                                                                                       "'"
                                                                                                                                      Per Cent                              Nu-
                                                                                                                                                                                    M~a,,..u

                                                                                                                                                                                                          Per Cent     Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AP/?//_,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Per Cent
    ! Evaluahon                Certain ,Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful• Total                   erlain Doubtful         Total Certain Doubtful Total             ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                                         ,. r
I   I l}e,110011
    , ..
    r- ~-
    1
        l•Astn:inom1cat
        2-Aucrift
                                  I
                                  3
                                  a
                                               C
                                               ~

                                               0
                                                       I
                                                       ~
                                                       0
                                                                77
                                                                ?.J I
                                                                  O.o
                                                                              o O' 7.7
                                                                              n, '-n
                                                                               0 0 O0
                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                   /./
                                                                                                    7
                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                               'l
                                                                                                                 0          I        5'f
                                                                                                                           5 13 5 H 19.'t
                                                                                                                           4 ill B II g
                                                                                                                                                 il,O

                                                                                                                                                         n,
                                                                                                                                                                     '3
                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                             t1
                                                                                                                                                                             ;,_
                                                                                                                                                                                          'I /10
                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                          J !H    'I '
                                                                                                                                                                                                       u
                                                                                                                                                                                                             113 /7.3

                                                                                                                                                                                                             B. 7 U7 /2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '13 11.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -S'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               /'}.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7 I'!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3.7 7-* ~. I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /'I. C p. Q 11/.t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /'f.6,    f{      n,
    /i-i.1stit Phenom.             fl          0        /'J        C./'         .(),/)    O.I           il        0             ('    tf.(l      .1.(l     ;),p      0          0         t)        QQ         (J.O   t!),l     I        ()      I     n.       O,P      /. 1..

I   i••Bnds
    ~Clouds, Dus~ elc.
    16-lnsuffic.tnfo.
                                   C
                                   C

                                   ,;
                                      ~
                                               [)

                                              C'
                                              0
                                                        C
                                                        ,-
                                                       ()
                                                                    Ol
                                                                    tJ.()
                                                                      r.i
                                                                                MJ
                                                                                I?,/.
                                                                               0.{J      M
                                                                                          o.z
                                                                                          I?,

                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                      J
                                                                                                     r,
                                                                                                                  Cl
                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                0


                                                                                                                            I j.'
                                                                                                                                      o.o
                                                                                                                                       /)/
                                                                                                                                                 r}.I)
                                                                                                                                                 0,P
                                                                                                                                                tJ.v
                                                                                                                                                          ao
                                                                                                                                                          ()./,

                                                                                                                                                         s-. r
                                                                                                                                                                     I

                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                      .?
                                                                                                                                                                                r)
                                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                   '/-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                    O.fJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                   'I-'
                                                                                                                                                                                                               tJ.O t{.j
                                                                                                                                                                                                              'f.J
                                                                                                                                                                                                              (J,f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1/,:J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1/2,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                               /Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ()

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.,1.f I. '1 JC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Jtl     r?.n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                tJ.o l'J.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          t)T,


        7-P,ydlololical                               :l.        1r4          t'.r /,'f                 tJ          0       ,; Jo                         JJ,t,                            0       0/J         P.t>            I          iJ     I   /, 2             /.1
                                               '
I
                                                                                                                                                /J.f!                 t)            I?                                /J,t'J                                     If/)

    1-Unknotffl                    1          0        1        .' 5'. If      /J,I)     !5'f       if          0          /./ :n 5 t1.u 1J5'.                       I/         /)       4 174 C.CJ /7,4 29                              0     1 9 'lf.4        .().O   3.5:I;
    ~Other                         :1.       I)       ::z       {5/J.         O.(J If.I;            :z            ,1       _J        118        I) r,    //.f        I        s-         t 't. 3 ')J,7 'U.O 1                            ()      1. ~/f         /),(1   VI·
            Tot~               /0            '.3     13 7'-1                 'J.3. I Ito~.      1/ '-f         '3         /7 C'M /U /PP- I 'I                                ?           '] 3 C.O.'f        3'!.J /0/. 1i /0 t i b7,8 /4,:I. /p().
I
    ,---                                           __ {/,,y                                                             ,Jv,,,,..                                                        Tu,:r                                          Aue ><T

I   I
    i        Evaluation
                                       Number               Per Cent                Numbe,                PerCenl
                               Certain Doubtful Total Certam Doublful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                            Nunter              Per Cent                Number                PerCmt
                                                                                                                                                                  Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain lloubtfu Total Certain O...blful Total
                                                                                                                ) 15' /1, .J. t; /t.f 6f fP /0? I/. 9' 7.t; /f.'t 3 t       3C 72 //. 0 II 0 no
    fl}B~loon
    It-Astronomic.al
                                  fl
                                              2' /4 /J'I-7 2H5 h.7 io l ')/
                                                                                                  '}/)
                                                                                                              13 H 1n Bil i;,O S'/ ')5' ?t 9.5 Lf 7 /11.'l. '? R 22 co l/7 f 7 lfl4

I
                                 :"t                  /~ /7
    )2-Aircraft                  II          I /l     ~ I n.'1 1:n U,r, ·;;q                                  II          ,s
                                                                                                                        ;n 7'1 :/3.C F5 (, (f /'ff 1,-'! //, 9 1.78 1./ fJ 31 7/ 11,3 'f.5' 'J.1.8
    [l·L•Kf,I Pllenom.            .1         t1        '., 3.8 o.o 3.lf I                                       0   I (). 7 ¢.0 07 I/       Lf ;, 'l.J o. 7 l-8 s           5 /0 u /.' J,()
        -.suds                                0        0          C,()       ().0        oo          f)         D    I}  do no 11~ ~ I           /.f   Q.(, 0 2 0-8      ()   t? 0     /)/) Ao A.I)
    :S-Clouds, Oust, etc.          1           ,· :t             1..5          aa                   I)                            IJ.IJ I        "~
                                                                                                                                             I ~ u 0 '2 0-4                                 p, 3 (l.3

I
                                                                                         75                     ()  0 (\C                                                /)  I   I    llll
    1
        6-lnsufhc. Info.           .; I        rJ      t   7., ,1.!)       /7            7t                    I)  17 /J-5 tJ.() /1.5' 6/    () ti    //, IJ ,11 If.I; "l/)  t) 30   9. :I t'-t? 'f. <
                                      :1       r
                                                        :: lo (), 0 #.JJ 4                                     ~   'I 1.-7 0,0            f               n
                                                                                                                                                /3 1-5 0 ? H /J              I '1 '2 5 0.3 'J.R
                                                                                                                                                                                ' ,-..
    ~7-Psychologicat
    ·a.unknown                    10          iJ      /(! r;.7 11 /) /?.7 -;..t                               I) -~ /7-~    /)J) /7.f II OP t? I Ofl 1/i.7 t).() If 7 CP     £) 60 /'o 'I- tl.£1 l.f.tl
                                  (,,                  7 7.(,, /3 $.</ S'                                                                                                                                             ; 3                q 13 2 B n
I
    \9-0l!ler                                  I                                                               I           t.        3,/.f      0.7       If.I       II         )                 ?..J       ~-1                9                                       •I.O
    I
            Total              C3          /6 7 7 7n ;>o 3 /lJlj                                 //8          JO /'Ii 717 ~D 3 IP#- J?S /if; nt 73.7 ~C-3 /0, 226 /00 '3".lC ,n JP.7 ldR,


I   I
                                            "5_,pr.,_ ~ " " • R
                                           Number                           Per Cent
                                                                                                             ,:'.'.?,.-r.~-~=
                                                                                                             Number                           Percent
                                                                                                                                                                             A/~_,
                                                                                                                                                                            Hunter  Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                   -
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /7,e,,..r"    -~&.,L;;;:,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Percent
             Evaluation        Certain Doubtful Total Certain llout>tful Total Certain Doimtful Total Certain Doubtf1j Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain lloubtfu                                                    Total Certain O...btful Total


I       0-Balloon
        l•Astronomical
                                 'I
                                10
                                 -9
                                            /0 /'f
                                               7 17
                                                                  n. ii //3
                                                                  fl          '-' IJ.7
                                                                  7.3 ')l,g '2'1.J
                                                                                                     \
                                                                                                    (,,
                                                                                                                'I
                                                                                                                  fl I tf
                                                                                                                          17,        1.r l'f.8 /'f.7
                                                                                                                                     H /'3/ ).Jr .t;
                                                                                                                   I?. If., It, A /'l. 7
                                                                                                                                                                     ;z
                                                                                                                                                                            _,s /0 1/.0  7
                                                                                                                                                                                                  /I. 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                  t.. 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             IU /1/.;J
                                                                                                                                                                                                             /0.P ') D.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                              6'.? /J./1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ~


                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ?.    0. p     'f.8 1/.B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                II l/113 /1. 9 :/,.1..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                II ').I/ :/3.8 u.~
                                            27 Jt
                                                                                                                                                                                          '                                        I
        2-Aimaft                                                                                    '<        9                                                      3      3


I
        3-LiptPtlenom.
        t-Birds                   I
                                   I         ~
                                             -:<
                                                  J
                                                  .3
                                                                  o.8 J., i,'I
                                                                  09          /. (. V/
                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                    (
                                                                                                              '2.
                                                                                                               J
                                                                                                                    1 D 0 J.3 3,3
                                                                                                                    '2.              ,,
                                                                                                                             /.' 3-'l.
                                                                                                                                                                     :2..
                                                                                                                                                                      /')
                                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                                t?
                                                                                                                                                                                          '3
                                                                                                                                                                                           ()
                                                                                                                                                                                              q. 0 1. 0 ,.n
                                                                                                                                                                                               M o.o 0,lJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '1-'-I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OP      ()O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    M .:1 '-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /J.v
                                                                                                                      I C.IJ I r, /.(,                                          z
        5-Clouds, Oust, etc.          0        I            I     !'in
                                                                  @r,
                                                                              o.g (/,fl                  C       I
                                                                                                                                      ,.,                             tJ                   ":(_     o.g       4,t} ,If.,?

                                                                                                                                                                                                             ac.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /)    0      0       ti.d     tJO IJ.IJ
        6-Jnsuffic.Jnfo.          II           /')     II
                                                   I 08 t?.() 0.8
                                                                               11,J ?.'I            4
                                                                                                    a
                                                                                                                t, 4
                                                                                                                            ~ ''
                                                                                                                             ,1/J
                                                                                                                                     Jo a. D I
                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                     if      0            Lj  g0         f.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1      CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .3    1./
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /J,IJ 7. /


I
        7-Psyctlllocical           I           0                                                                  0                                                          0              I :i..o                                      {)                      ,:J,tJ Q_ D
        &-UnknoYIIII            3/            11/ 11 ']f.O /J /) ,s.o                              II           I)         II /80C!t?     II. o I ,                           tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                         j.Q
                                                                                                                                                                                          /o 10. 0 O,t) J(),t)"·"              II        t)     Ii U.'l t?.1/ ~(.2
        9-0111,i                  6           I    7 1/.3 0. ½ J,                                  'l          I            3 .3. 3 /, (, 'f. 'i t                            t?           :l 4.n I),, i/.0                    .3        /}     ..3    7 ./     tJ,o     7,/

                                7tf S"!l /JI/ {f.7 1,.3                                  m 30                 3/ ,1 lf{JJ. 5'0,B !OP.                                                    S'o (P.O             1:lP /PO. ;!5 /7 1(-'7. H'i 90.5 JPQ,
I
            Total                                                                                                                                                  '3tf      1,




I
I
I
I
I                                                                                                                                        129


I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                          &.c    A£.L.           5i'G6:'.T/4!G 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
        EVlluahoa




4-Buds
S-Clouds, Dust. etc.
6-tnsuffic. -.ro.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
7-Psydl,~&icat

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
       Total

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
I
         Evaluation
                                  Ec.e:. ,,1:-,,~
                                Number                PerCenl                 Number
                                                                                          Cnoll
                                                                                                     Per Cent                Nuntier
                                                                                                                                        .£1_ 1/i'TFIJJ..
                                                                                                                                                   Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                                                                                                    PL,, •17 •
                                                                                                                                                                                                Percent
                        Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doulllful Total Certain Dooblful Total ~ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu Total Certain llmbtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
    0-Bailoon               I       0       I £1             I.A .f.1            I   /)     I :J.I t?O :J.1                 ~      o.      7 L7          n11     t.7      ~    d       1    I/~     M II.I
    I-Astronomical
    2-Aircraft
    J..Lichl Phenom.
                            3
                            I
                            0
                                    0
                                    I
                                    t)
                                            ~llf-9
                                            ~

                                             ()    IJ./)
                                                            t!./) r/5.f'
                                                   .u .f,.., I/J.'
                                                           IJ.0    /JO       I
                                                                              'l
                                                                              I
                                                                                     I(
                                                                                     I
                                                                                     IJ
                                                                                           II JU I/. I 1/1.5
                                                                                           .2 .?.9 2.i &~,
                                                                                            I 2.f        IJ./J     :J.f
                                                                                                                           1,
                                                                                                                            ~
                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                   t/
                                                                                                                                   (J
                                                                                                                                   11
                                                                                                                                        •:JIJ "1,1-
                                                                                                                                          /l
                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                /),',
                                                                                                                                                --7-,
                                                                                                                                                         f.9 <Al.<
                                                                                                                                                         (J,()
                                                                                                                                                         IJ b
                                                                                                                                                                 /1/)

                                                                                                                                                                 .2-1
                                                                                                                                                                          I.
                                                                                                                                                                          ,J
                                                                                                                                                                          I)
                                                                                                                                                                               11
                                                                                                                                                                               ()
                                                                                                                                                                               /]
                                                                                                                                                                                      ,:.
                                                                                                                                                                                      t)

                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                            "t(°~

                                                                                                                                                                                            ()_()

                                                                                                                                                                                            ao
                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,M 1,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    11./J (),I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                    /JJJ /J,P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
    4-Birds                0       I)        /J    t?.O    t?.o ,1.0         I)      /I    IJ    4n      IJ,O      /1.tJ    IJ     11     ,j   /1.IJ     11.0    /J.()    /1   0      I)    /JJJ    (),IJ    I?,/)
    Hlouds, Dus~ et~
    6-lnsuffic.ktfo.
    7-Psycholo&ical
                           0
                           t/
                           t)
                                   /1
                                    (1
                                    I)
                                            /I     IJ.()
                                             t/ Iv.a
                                            ()     /J./J
                                                           /J. /l /41,/l
                                                           /)_I)
                                                           I)/)
                                                                   111)
                                                                   /).{J    d
                                                                             ~
                                                                              IJ     /)
                                                                                     t)
                                                                                     I
                                                                                           0
                                                                                           2
                                                                                            I
                                                                                                Ml
                                                                                                .f'.(,
                                                                                                P.()
                                                                                                         IJ<]
                                                                                                         /J,IJ
                                                                                                         ,:,_; 2.r
                                                                                                                   1).1)
                                                                                                                   .a
                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                           7
                                                                                                                           2
                                                                                                                                   ti
                                                                                                                                   d
                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                          ()
                                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                                                               IJ.0
                                                                                                                                             V.'I M 1/.'/
                                                                                                                                           1 1/.~ "-7 /J.
                                                                                                                                                         1)/1    Ii,()    11
                                                                                                                                                                          £.
                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                               I)
                                                                                                                                                                               IJ
                                                                                                                                                                               d
                                                                                                                                                                                      I)
                                                                                                                                                                                      ~
                                                                                                                                                                                      /0
                                                                                                                                                                                            l?_t)
                                                                                                                                                                                            -in
                                                                                                                                                                                                    A.IJ 11./1
                                                                                                                                                                                                    "!"' i-:tC~
                                                                                                                                                                                                     A /l   .s:'I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
&-Unknown                  I,      ()                      /),J    1/t.    JI        /J   ti    '1A.(    IJ.0 ,,,,(        q       /)     9 'ltJ.O ().I) .,,,,,           ~    t)   -~ II. fl               I/. 'I.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                    "II
9-0ther                    .J      ()
                                             '
                                            J IS:B
                                                  •1,J(,
                                                           tl.d 16.9         'l      /)     7 l?.i       ,.,, 19.V          '7     /1     'l ltf".r ().() I.S'S           /j   tJ     11    /1.IJ   /JO     ,?.I]


I      Total             II         I      I? 9/1.3        1'. ~ IAA       ':/17     6 1, v.13 lt-7 Jpr},                  Jlo     5     </,j !(l('l    Ill I/JI,        /'I   /j    /7 IP/I        11, IJ •1ot1.

                        Oit{L ~         t'U, 7                E J/!U t//Jr;fel/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
         Evaluation
    0-Balloon
    I-Astronomical
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
    4-Binls
    Hloods,Dllst,elt.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
    6-lnsullic.llllo.
    ~Psydlolopcal


    9-0lher
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
       Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
         Evaluation
    0.Balloon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
    1-Asbanoaical
    Z-Airuaft


    I-Birds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
    Hloads,Dust,elt.


    ~Psydlolopcal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
       Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                     130
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
I
I                                                                                                                                                                   S/GHT/11/ef,S                                     s tGrY'.r1/l(C

I           Edluation
                                         ,.,_£xeEt..t..cAl-r
                                                          Per Cent
                            Certlin Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                    /


                                                                                                                Number
                                                                                                                           000/J
                                                                                                                                Per Cent
                                                                                                   ertain Doubtful Tolal Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                             Nu-
                                                                                                                                                                                 f}f?,,lfTrtlL.
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /?t?c>R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Per Cad
                                                                                                                                                                    ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doulllful Tot~



I   ~Bolloon                   1J          p            u
                                                      /,, 1u-.J
                                                                     ll'2    P.n
                                                                             ,,,   .     t::i.          3            0      3         ,;:/      d.0 ;_ I
                                                                                                                                               ,. I. B],I
                                                                                                                                                                     I fl       5' 11
                                                                                                                                                                                        , ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                 /IH           J.1./ /1.7          I!       ::z      //)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               II. 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .,   .     2.1 /31.J


                                                                                                        " '
    I1-Astronoem:al            1            7                                        2.f.~          20                      19       JH                              ,;i.       ff                '1,f'       .(f'     Ji ..                2                             2 7         11.0
                                                                                                                                                                     ,..,                                                        '"
        2-Aucraft
    3-LiptPtlenom.
                               a
                               0
                                           I
                                           n           D
                                                        t'           f'J.
                                                                     IJ.0
                                                                              ,A

                                                                             D. f)
                                                                                       /f),,

                                                                                         /),/)          0
                                                                                                                     ,;-
                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                             JI

                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                     ff),2
                                                                                                                                     /),/)
                                                                                                                                                 «.,; If 7
                                                                                                                                                tJ,O /)./)            0
                                                                                                                                                                               q
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                         .,,:.
                                                                                                                                                                                           t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ts.fl
                                                                                                                                                                                                  /),/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                             '7.-'I

                                                                                                                                                                                                             tH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       11 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,.,   . ,,12        /)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               "·'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                All       .. o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DD           I, A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       f)"



I   4·Birds
    S-Clouds, Dus~ el~
    6-lnsuffic. -.1,.
                               0
                                n

                               tJ.
                                           /)

                                           /J
                                           /)
                                                       0
                                                      I)
                                                       ,._
                                                                    00
                                                                    fJ,f)


                                                                     "'
                                                                             t'.P
                                                                             n.tl
                                                                             /J/J
                                                                                        f)f)

                                                                                         ()I)

                                                                                        B,
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                        ()
                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                    /)
                                                                                                                   I)
                                                                                                                   {)
                                                                                                                     0       I)

                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                     IJ.0
                                                                                                                                     17.()
                                                                                                                                      , .,
                                                                                                                                                D,IJ

                                                                                                                                                /)O
                                                                                                                                                /)/)
                                                                                                                                                       l.o
                                                                                                                                                          0.0
                                                                                                                                                           / 7
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                    ;,..,
                                                                                                                                                                               I)

                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                          I)
                                                                                                                                                                                         ,,
                                                                                                                                                                               ,., 7,;- 20:1
                                                                                                                                                                                                  P.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                  /)./)
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ob
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0 n
                                                                                                                                                                                                            19,IJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /J.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /J,IJ

                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,. '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   p

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 l"I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           " ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '" ,,. ,.,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               "f)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              20.J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         01,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          t)f)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IJ./J

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .1.>.?
                                                                             ao                                                                                                                                         M                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,,u- :>-1,3
    7-Psydlolo~cal                         0          0              tM                             0                        0       170                  /JI)        0        0          0       f)/)       ,U)                   4                                                   5..J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,.,. ,.
                                                                                        11,IJ                                                   IJ.O
                               "
I   g.-
    ~0-
                             Zf
                                I
                                           0
                                           n
                                           , ,,,.
                                                    .Z..I
                                                       I
                                                                   lf2..1
                                                                     :1,f)
                                                                             o.D l,,l,?
                                                                             /J.O       Zf)
                                                                                                   IZ
                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                   n
                                                                                                                   r
                                                                                                                           /7_

                                                                                                                            II-
                                                                                                                                   21.J
                                                                                                                                      1.7
                                                                                                                                                /n
                                                                                                                                                le I
                                                                                                                                                          21)'

                                                                                                                                                          /,,fl
                                                                                                                                                                    '2:Z.
                                                                                                                                                                     3
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               JI.
                                                                                                                                                                                        2.Z.
                                                                                                                                                                                          7
                                                                                                                                                                                                 /7,q

                                                                                                                                                                                                  2,/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                             n.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                              7.2.      s;1,      2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           d          .2.      Z.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IJ./J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          11()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '2/,.J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .Z.7


           T~                J.1-1                                  1J.1 /~ J 1/#A                 ,,J           u         SY        7.1.,9 27 I Jf)f)               97      il        1-7-:1    711Q       2U ff)/)            7/        JJ.        7S 9'1.7           .s-;3 /fJO,


I                                                                                                                            ,:;7r            tfLL        Sf<zt(T(/1/65

                                                rn•ctt..£A/r                                                               6000                                                        /),,VlfT.h/L.                                                /0,::,Jf

I            Evaluahoa
        ~8'11oon
        l•Astnlnomical
                                    Number



                                    7
                                               "
                                                          Per Cent
                            Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Oomtful Total Certain Doobtful Total
                                    I                       I        .f'f      A

                                                                             II I
                                                                                  Nurmer


                                                                                         ....
                                                                                                       Percent


                                                                                                        s--          I
                                                                                                                       r
                                                                                                                              /,     l;J..2     ;1../1     /,lll
                                                                                                                                                                    ertain DoubHul Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu Tolal Certain Doobtlul Total
                                                                                                                                                                       :z.
                                                                                                                                                                           Nudter


                                                                                                                                                                                 :z.       If
                                                                                                                                                                                                Per Cent


                                                                                                                                                                                                      ?.~     ?,u
                                                                                                                                                                                                             ._q ,:;, I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Number


                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6.8'        J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Pe,Cent


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I         3     f,.'J     .2,3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I//,{) .;no
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7.0
                                               7            ('"     IL,                27~          I~                      //(                12,;;z. iLl,9           J{       IJ.       7       S.l.                              6        I,       /;2      /LJ.I)



I                               ,                                                                                                    "'· 7
        2-Aircraft
        3-Li&f!IPflenom.
                                                I       ,,_         ,. ' c-,           2,,                  7        tJ
                                                                                                                     p
                                                                                                                              7      /7/        IJ./)     17. I        '2       /J.       6
                                                                                                                                                                                          3
                                                                                                                                                                                                  ?,JJ       ,:_q ,, 3              L,.     Cit        7       Q~         7.f)        JL,'J
                                0              0                             00         0,0             d                    IJ       OA        /),0       d.()                 I                 1.11-                 Jc I       /J      I)          I)      t') /)

        4-Birds                ()              /)
                                                        0
                                                        0
                                                                      M>

                                                                    ... c    01          on             d            I        I       no        ~    J.     ,LI
                                                                                                                                                                       7
                                                                                                                                                                       ()       /)         I)    t),0
                                                                                                                                                                                                              I. 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                             l'J/J     0.0         ()      0           0       /), 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          l'i;O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       "·"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       tJ,J/
                                                                                   ,,,,
I
    S-Cloud~ Ous~ et~
        6-lnsutric.lnfo.
                                0
                                r,
                                               /)

                                               n        I)
                                                          n
                                                                     ...
                                                                     IJ.O    IJ.0
                                                                             n• ,,.
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                        ()
                                                                                                                     /J
                                                                                                                     /)
                                                                                                                             /)
                                                                                                                             fJ
                                                                                                                                      /)()

                                                                                                                                     J/.0
                                                                                                                                                nn
                                                                                                                                                JJ.0
                                                                                                                                                           /I~

                                                                                                                                                           ~,/J
                                                                                                                                                           o,o
                                                                                                                                                                       /J
                                                                                                                                                                       9
                                                                                                                                                                                n
                                                                                                                                                                               I)
                                                                                                                                                                                           p
                                                                                                                                                                                           q lrs
                                                                                                                                                                                                  J/.t)      /)O
                                                                                                                                                                                                             tf.O l.,.S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       11/J        t')

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ~      /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ()      11 t')
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              11,6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,:,.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (!,/)        "'"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /IL
        7-Psycholotital         n              n       /J            l>A     /J.O
                                                                                   ""                   t')        ()        0       tin        /),0                   I        J         ;;z.    I    7     / 7        ?.IJ,      ()     D            /)      19 I)      P,O          IA

    S.Unknom                    7              /)       ., .N.9              (l,O ,,.q                  'I         IJ        q J..I, 'I         P.D       71t1       '.l,                    IJ.3 I                    u.1,/               ()         II                  d.O 2;..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  "s
                                                                                                                                                                               ()       2.,                  IJ,(/                                         ~<::6
    9-0ther                     I          n                                                                         p
                                                                                                                             "                                                                                                                         .!" ,,. 6

I
                                                          I          i:-c    /)/)
                                                                                        ~-~             II                           ,,/)       (J.0       /),{)      2        0          2.   :l'.it        ()_()       J,11              D                              /J.f)       II I,

           Total              I,           3          ,,          l'ifJ,J                                          7               lf:z,7 17.I //J/J                          /2. s-1
    I                                                                        /6.1      /D(),       311                     /fl                                      11-6                          7'f.1 ;z.0,1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       "'·       ]3       /0         IJ3      76-6 .2.J,l. IOO,

                                                                              EVALth?TfM                                                                                                                                                            REL /,?/!llL /Tf,/


I            EvaluatNXI
                                       £.rt'ct.t..€/IJT
                                   Number                 Percent                 Number
                                                                                            f?O. 0
                                                                                                         Percent                 Nunter
                                                                                                                                        LJov6'rr n
                                                                                                                                                       Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                                                                                                       /h,::,;e
                                                                                                                                                                                                    PerCalt
                            Cerbin ODllbtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Oool>tful Total Certain Doobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu Total Certain Ooobtlul Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '



                                                                                                                                                 ,.,                 ,,
I       ~Balloon
        I-Astronomical
        2-Aimafl
                                /7
                               27
                                    II     //

                                           u
                                               y
                                                      2l.
                                                      3,
                                                      1,/1 "I.
                                                                    ,,7
                                                                   ,,,..,
                                                                             •7 ,.,/J
                                                                             'U,'1
                                                                             1.11
                                                                                       ,~,, .•,,    77
                                                                                                   /fl}
                                                                                                    d,
                                                                                                                   ~ J;J.9
                                                                                                                   S'O
                                                                                                                   flu
                                                                                                                            ,,,, J?'I
                                                                                                                           I '7L
                                                                                                                                      9.7                 Ii. 1
                                                                                                                                                I,, 3 '20 l.
                                                                                                                                               II q 7> ,
                                                                                                                                                                    10'1
                                                                                                                                                                    /J'J
                                                                                                                                                                               ID 1:i.1 ~o
                                                                                                                                                                                :n JILi. JIJ,2
                                                                                                                                                                                   ;vi ,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                              7.lf 15)11
                                                                                                                                                                                                             /J.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                            I ?,/7 71L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /(?/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ~'{
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2/L

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2'1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ;;1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ., ,_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S"I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      J;.D

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /,J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               /7,J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                'I' I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               'I."
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7.1 /q,9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         tT.IJ.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7./J. 17:,..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /LS'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ., 1.7
                                                                                                                                    lh1                                      //ff)
        3-Litntf'tlSIOII.       2          0            2            /,2     /1.IJ       J.2.               7        9:      /<;     A.q         I 0        /.'I      ,~       q         ::u I i              ,. l.     .2,/J     ~        0                             ()./)         1,7

I       4-Birds
        S-Cloud~ Ous~ et~
        6-lnsutric.•111.
                                /)
                                0
                               /.J
                                           ,,
                                           /J

                                           /)
                                                        p
                                                        I)
                                                       lL
                                                                     0.0
                                                                     0.0
                                                                     7_('
                                                                             00
                                                                             DD
                                                                              O.I>
                                                                                        b.O
                                                                                         An

                                                                                        , ,.. .,,
                                                                                                         iJ
                                                                                                         'i'       10
                                                                                                                     I

                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                             s- /J.'f
                                                                                                                            J'l         n
                                                                                                                                     ., l'I
                                                                                                                                                D. t
                                                                                                                                                I'?
                                                                                                                                                /) /)
                                                                                                                                                           o.,
                                                                                                                                                           ?
                                                                                                                                                           2,-8
                                                                                                                                                               ~

                                                                                                                                                                     7q
                                                                                                                                                                       l1
                                                                                                                                                                         7     3

                                                                                                                                                                               "
                                                                                                                                                                               I)
                                                                                                                                                                                          //J

                                                                                                                                                                                         74
                                                                                                                                                                                            7
                                                                                                                                                                                                  /J,C/
                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                 IA.J
                                                                                                                                                                                                             tl.lJ.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  O,'I
                                                                                                                                                                                                             //,IJ,

                                                                                                                                                                                                             n,o 11),3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1,3        2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,{./
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /)        'I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       r,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               P.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1),0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               'J06
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /),3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /)./)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         tJ.P ',.o./J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /. t7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       p,p


        7-Psycholo&ic:al       0           0              ()        b,f)
                                                                                        ".               ,           0
                                                                                                                            ? '
                                                                                                                                                          P.3                            ~· ,,..,            P,,<,      '711

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '       .'!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ...... I.I 3,/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,,.,,
I
                                                                             /J/J                                                               (!_/)                Jf/'       /J.               7.7
                                                                                                                             2., "· 3
        1-Unlaro•             /./)         0          {,()         UV        /)O       ?, ~ ;2.ll'/                  I)    22'il 'k'i'          b.t)      ,H.K 17.0            I)       M~                   o,n 1.:1.           LL-,       0         JJ7 l1£q           D.IJ
        9-0lher                                                                         u.J                                                                Jj,_ 7     ,.,                             ,s     0,3        1R         ()                          /J /I      II,/        a. I
                                                                                                                     '
                               7                            7        LI. 3                                                  ]7 j,'f             nfl
                                                                                                    "'                                                                                   '2.4
                                          I)                                                                                                                                    7                                                         /7_         /7_

                                                                             ""
                                                                   7t.s :2/,S' /1)0,                                       71:Z. 71.I .2.7,, tPo                                                 7/.i J.5:// /IJO.                        ll'IJ. 27' 7/J,

I
           Total             /'lA        .35'       /r,3                                           !,7/         ?2/                                                 t;'a'1   2./ff 711                                          'J,/:;2                                 :2fl.lJ lt)P.




I
I
I
I
I                                                                                                                                              131


I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                          ~rt~~~'.d=L=e-_ _~d~J~:z~--======--=-~'~'IIY~~t~r

                                              E/'ceLLEIVT
                                                                                                                                     '£    A!S
                                                                                                                                                     S/Glt'.C/416S                  _,,qy      .:o c,t.17,,,N'G                   REL,,9;f/L 1rY

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
    S-Clouds. Dust, etc.
    6-lnsuffic. Inti.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
    7-Psydlololical


    9-0lhe<




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
        Total


                                                                           E VAL t/fi WMI



         Evaluation
    0-Balloon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
    !•Astronomical
    2--Aircraft
    l-Liat,IPll1110m.
    4-Birds
    Hloud~ Dus~ et~
    6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
    1-PsyctlololiCII
    8-Unkno.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
I
    9-0lhe,


       Total                I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
~-

                                   Numbef
                                                  £;,r('ELLe/1/T
                                                         Per Cent
                                                                           E//AL/..l,977CJAI
                                                                           GRtJt/~

                                                                                 Number
                                                                                           /
                                                                                                            &OCJl!J
                                                                                                      PerCer,t
                                                                                                                     -
                                                                                                                   ,~cJ?


                                                                                                                              Nunter
                                                                                                                                                   S/6h'VJ//6.f



                                                                                                                                                    Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                   /21~,,drrPL
                                                                                                                                                                            Number               PerC8'1t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I'?,,-,,('
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
         Evaluation        Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Domllul Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu Total Certain Doubtful Total
    0-Balloon                                         _g ,/J./)        ,c;;p /",/.,        I,        .5        // /I fl            H       2/,/,      ~      ,;/      //J    i.l      5-_t/ 15.5         ~         /J           /J    /JO     0,/)
                                ,.,?.         I                                                                                                                                                                                                         l?.(J
    l-Astrono111ical                     g           //    fS:/J ?!)./) /;5:/J            //1           ,;    /',  19.t ~R t?,1/ /CJ                        It       ?I. 15.5 2//, '15/                  I         ?.        ?       /2./S ?5./) H,;
    2•Aimah                     ?.        /}         1,    ltJ.t) AA J/).()                1            /J     :J' .£9 /J,/J ,:;,9 9                         4       I f 1.f.t s;q /7./,                 J         /J        I       /2.G   /J.I) 12,5
                                                            ,,,, /J/J
    3-Liat,IPhlllllffl.
    4-Bilds
    ~~ Dus~ et~

    6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
                                0
                                /}
                                0
                                0       0
                                         /}

                                         /
                                        /}
                                                     0


                                                     n
                                                      I

                                                     /}
                                                           #.o 5".f}
                                                            An

                                                            /J,O
                                                                     nn
                                                                      /J,(J
                                                                                 All
                                                                                ~(J
                                                                                IJ. t)
                                                                                 0./l
                                                                                           2.
                                                                                           I
                                                                                           t1
                                                                                           t
                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                     2,,

                                                                                                     CJ
                                                                                                        n
                                                                                                               :J' ?I? ?, /J ,:; 9
                                                                                                                 ? ?,(J       5. 9 n
                                                                                                                t1 1'1/J O.JJ IJ. 17
                                                                                                               t, 1.1 n.n t' 9 l.f
                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                     /J
                                                                                                                                                             2,,
                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                             /J
                                                                                                                                                                      z ll,A 2.7 .1.7
                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                      /)

                                                                                                                                                                    1.5
                                                                                                                                                                             I.El
                                                                                                                                                                             /J 0
                                                                                                                                                                            /7. I,
                                                                                                                                                                                      IJ.O
                                                                                                                                                                                      /J /J
                                                                                                                                                                                               ;q
                                                                                                                                                                                                /J,JJ
                                                                                                                                                                                       /J./J IJ'f./.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                         /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                         /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Z,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             n

                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /Jn /J,IJ /J,O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IJ./J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               /1/1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               /J 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            z '2fi.(J /J/J f'S.IJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0,/7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
    7-Psychololical
    8-Unkno•
    9-0ther
                                /7
                                f
                                jJ
                                        CJ
                                         /J
                                         /J
                                                     17


                                                     n
                                                      r
                                                           /J,n
                                                           1,:;tJ
                                                           nn
                                                                      /J. /}


                                                                      /J.O o.n
                                                                                0. 0
                                                                      IJ./J 1<. (J         q
                                                                                           'f
                                                                                               J     /7
                                                                                                     I?
                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                 I 2,(J tJ.o ~-0 /J
                                                                                                                9 111. /) I} 1'1.1.. ..!
                                                                                                               ✓ ~9 ?./J ~9          /J
                                                                                                                                                             ti
                                                                                                                                                             /}

                                                                                                                                                             I.
                                                                                                                                                                     /)

                                                                                                                                                                      .f
                                                                                                                                                                     ,!.
                                                                                                                                                                            /J, !)
                                                                                                                                                                            i/./
                                                                                                                                                                            17. I}
                                                                                                                                                                                      jJ /)

                                                                                                                                                                                      /J n
                                                                                                                                                                                       fi'/
                                                                                                                                                                                                /) I.
                                                                                                                                                                                                t/.J
                                                                                                                                                                                                i'J
                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CJ      /'J


                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     11.5 /J, /) 1/:t.!S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /2.!>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.(J       0./l


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               /J./J /? &;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
       Total                11/         /.,        20 1t!/J J'O.n /l)(J.                 .J'?      JI/        ,s/ 11.t, 11.,/ /1)/J.                //2,.

                                                                                                                                           f/G lt0/116S
                                                                                                                                                            f.Z     ?t/ 51..f t/.?.:t la>.              /,,     ~           f        d,:_A    25:/J     //1/J

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
         Evaluation
    0-Balloon
                           Ceruin Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total ,:;ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total ~rtain Domllul Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain o... 1>11u1 Total Cerlain Doubtful Total
                                /}
                                        - /)
                                              Ert>ELLIEIVT
                                                        PerCEfll


                                                     (J /J.() n n n. n
                                                                                  Number


                                                                                           ✓         ;2,
                                                                                                             600~
                                                                                                        PerCenl

                                                                                                                I.
                                                                                                                               Number


                                                                                                                         1.'7 1~ I/,,:;
                                                                                                                                                    Per Cent


                                                                                                                                                     #        /7
                                                                                                                                                                   ,r:?~v.t?TrPL
                                                                                                                                                                            ;.Jnmtf

                                                                                                                                                                       ,; 5.2.        ".JJ      ,:;,2
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Per Cent


                                                                                                                                                                                                         .?         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /bCJ"



                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ✓ 1.t/ /I /1,5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                              :2.J' 19 d?. 'J J/11,1.                                J'i 11.I :21 .1 WH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
    l·Astrormical            ~            1         12. 25.IJ 1/5,A lll_O                  I       ?.2.                                              /'/    fl/                                         //      ,::,,✓,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           t// /2, /,, 74.5" 14'1.f
    2•A1mlft                    J        /J           I 5. {J !), 0 50                     !,        L        II         9.£. l/.5
                                                                                                                                           ')   '·' /)'T      I       ~ ?I     / j //JU                  !,      5         /fl        ,,_~     t;,,.,    ,1./,1
    3-Liat,IPII-.               ,7      /}           t1 n,1 o.n ,,, n                     /)         /)        /)         /)_A19.0 /J.I,                     /7       (J    ,,, ti /7.0 (J.O             I}      jJ          0        /J,O /J.n         /J /)
    4-Birds                     /)       I            I JJ.I) t;, (J ... 0                 /)       IJ         0         /J,0 0. (J /7.o             2,,.    jJ       z ?,,t;         /J, /)    fJ.t     0      I)           n       /7.0     17, I)     /) /J
    ~Cl-Oust, et~
    6-lnsuffic.lllD.
    7-Psydlolo&ical
    8--
                                jJ

                                /)

                                ,7
                                r
                                        I?
                                         /J
                                         jJ

                                        /J
                                                      /)

                                                      /)


                                                     ,.,
                                                     /7
                                                            /J.t,
                                                           /J,I?
                                                           0.CJ
                                                           11,;_r,
                                                                     00 no
                                                                     /J,I?
                                                                     /) /)

                                                                      n.O "".tJ
                                                                                /J, /J
                                                                               0,CJ
                                                                                           /J
                                                                                           ✓
                                                                                          t?
                                                                                          f<
                                                                                                    CJ
                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                    t?
                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                               /)
                                                                                                               ,/ '1 'f
                                                                                                               (l
                                                                                                                ~
                                                                                                                          ,?.(;J


                                                                                                                         IJ.£)
                                                                                                                         /!,t/
                                                                                                                                   /)_IJ
                                                                                                                                   /J n


                                                                                                                                   /J (J
                                                                                                                                           /J,0
                                                                                                                                           "".?
                                                                                                                                   /J, J) /},/.
                                                                                                                                           //;."
                                                                                                                                                     /)

                                                                                                                                                    /R
                                                                                                                                                     Cl
                                                                                                                                                     I.
                                                                                                                                                             /)

                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                             CJ
                                                                                                                                                             ()
                                                                                                                                                                      0     /J.O
                                                                                                                                                                     /K :t.N' tl. I? :2.V,
                                                                                                                                                                      t1 /J,/)
                                                                                                                                                                      I, '1.f
                                                                                                                                                                                      LJ.t) /) /J


                                                                                                                                                                                      o.a P. CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                      /) {J    'If
                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                        //
                                                                                                                                                                                                         3
                                                                                                                                                                                                        /,/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ll
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  £)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           j,/ Ii!../
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,?. 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /9,lf,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I?. LJ  tfJ.CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,7. /J 11.1.1,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A.d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /J./}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ?.//
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /1,./
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
    JOeO'


       Total                12,.
                                /       CJ

                                        fl
                                                     /

                                                   /J./7
                                                            ,:;,; /J.A

                                                           1./J_/.   u,✓,n
                                                                                 t;_/.



                                                                               //JO.
                                                                                          t7

                                                                                         ?Z
                                                                                                    /7


                                                                                                   7/J
                                                                                                               d         /J.O tl./J        /J,n       I      /)



                                                                                                             52, t/U /;1, 1 //),I). 5~ :2Z 11 111.I/ 11.t /0/J. 51
                                                                                                                                                                      I     /. q      O.tl      /. .7    ✓


                                                                                                                                                                                                               11,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  J)        .u  /IL            /J/J


                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ~1 !,/f./, #,¢' I/OP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .IL

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                             132                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
I
I
                                                                                       VGft7741G s   IN
I                                      tUt.    Efh9t.L/,fTl{?A/     ff




I
I
I
I                             -rMLL£   tU/    £ M1.///l 0@1         tJr   «lftu:      S/GHn/1/65     8'9'   REL c,1.e n. 1   ry

I           Evaluation
        0-Balloon



I
        l•Asbononncal


        3-Lif,tPhom-
        4-Birds



I   S-Clouds, Dus~ et~
    6-lnsuffit.lnfo.
        l·Psycholo&ical
    8-Unkno;,,,



I   9-0ther


    I      Total




I                                             lj,fL f./ & V <?Ill    ff     (ldl/-C




I
            Evaluation
        0-Balloon
        I-Astronomical




I       4-Birds
        S-Clouds, ~st. etc.
        6-lnsutfic.-.to.



I       7-Psycll>lo&ical




I          Total




I
I
I
I
I                                                                          133

I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                    £;,c,u.L€11/r
                                ftlmbel
                                                   ·--


                                                      PerCl!fll
                                                                                 ,
                                                                              Number
                                                                                            6000
                                                                                                    Percent
                                                                                                                                          IJt:Jt/6' rrt/L
                                                                                                                                      Number                Percent                 Number
                                                                                                                                                                                             ,C,:,o,e
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
      Enluabon
~0-Balloon
                        Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Gertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubttul Total

                          17        if   2.r             f,()   J.( JI.I        IU   il;;   f '7 'i   /1.P
                                                                                                                ,.,    Jt,g
                                                                                                                               ertain Doubltul Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain lloubttul Total

                                                                                                                                7.1     f l JV           f/7     7~ 11..s        3/J.    7:1.    St.      7,{     S:/ /?.q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
·J-Astn,oomical
,.                       J,:J.     • A   r.2.       ,r.D        f,lf   u,,i   ·tit   u I ?JJ IJJ.~              ~7 :J.3,D       ffl     u 1171 //,/             ~3 19.11        IH      ;;-.3    99      IP.I.   /?,     -'-l<l
                                                                               n                                                                                                        ..,_,., 6'f               L >    ,c-o
!2-~ucraft
                         •• I~,., _,, I 11,7                    7.S 19,2              7? JU /1,.i /IJ,J, 11n                   /()'f    'I'! /ff( /:?)         /I,).. '1.h.q
                                                                                                                                                                                  ,                       '1.7
3-L•Rht Phenom.
4•Birds
5--Clouds, Dust, etc.
 6-lnsuffit. ~lo.
                             ?
                            .,, ,J._ M
                            I)

                            ()
                                   .J.. ;?.1

                                  ()       /J
                                            f
                                                     tJ.J)
                                                     ,,.,
                                                                I.D
                                                                o.9
                                                                d.l
                                                                tl,P
                                                                       ,H
                                                                       0. 9
                                                                       tJ.P
                                                                                f
                                                                                II
                                                                                J_
                                                                                      ~
                                                                                       1 lg /,;L I~ 1 1.

                                                                                      .J
                                                                                      /)
                                                                                                8'
                                                                                                7
                                                                                            :1..'7
                                                                                                       l),S
                                                                                                      I)"
                                                                                                                /J.~

                                                                                                               "· 7
                                                                                                      _,u P.tl .U If/
                                                                                                                        lO
                                                                                                                          n
                                                                                                                                /1,1.
                                                                                                                                  ,(

                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                         q
                                                                                                                                          ?
                                                                                                                                         ,z.
                                                                                                                                               .)..3

                                                                                                                                                 9
                                                                                                                                                 3
                                                                                                                                          t:7 fl I
                                                                                                                                                        J.'l
                                                                                                                                                       O,K
                                                                                                                                                        0/
                                                                                                                                                                /,/ 2.'I
                                                                                                                                                               tJ. ,, l.;1.
                                                                                                                                                               ()3     l).JJ.

                                                                                                                                                               IJ.0 ;/J,/J
                                                                                                                                                                                  :z
                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                '1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                        (}
                                                                                                                                                                                        I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                  ·"
                                                                                                                                                                                                  3
                                                                                                                                                                                                 /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                 f'l
                                                                                                                                                                                                         /,/
                                                                                                                                                                                                         d.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                         t),p
                                                                                                                                                                                                        '1/,JJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 P.D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 P,"1.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /J,I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /J,D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /,}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /J,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1,/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2/,ll.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                            'p    t?                                   H.'l. ;J..7                                                                     /fl.A
                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,:,
 7-Psydl>lo~cal
 II-Unknown
9-Qllle,
                         7,
                          II
                                  /)
                                   L)

                                  ,1
                                          7/
                                          //
                                            0        I.P
                                                    ?3.3
                                                     £).
                                                                p,/)
                                                                M)
                                                                All
                                                                        Ad 3
                                                                       J].3 11r
                                                                       S:2.    .3/
                                                                                       I
                                                                                      ()
                                                                                       7
                                                                                               .If
                                                                                            1!3 ,U,Q
                                                                                             3fJ
                                                                                                      /)_J;,



                                                                                                      .f-./
                                                                                                                ti I I)< ..,~
                                                                                                                tNJ 1.,J'i 10.3
                                                                                                                tJ 9 S/J       ;;2.7
                                                                                                                                          L
                                                                                                                                          0

                                                                                                                                          'I
                                                                                                                                               1..{
                                                                                                                                               IA?

                                                                                                                                               3£
                                                                                                                                                        ?C     If (

                                                                                                                                                       no /J,tl fl.fl
                                                                                                                                                       J,#     I.I
                                                                                                                                                                       ?1


                                                                                                                                                                      ac-
                                                                                                                                                                                ;1
                                                                                                                                                                                'H
                                                                                                                                                                                Ii
                                                                                                                                                                                        .2
                                                                                                                                                                                        /)
                                                                                                                                                                                        g>
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ✓ LL


                                                                                                                                                                                                7.2.

                                                                                                                                                                                                ~"
                                                                                                                                                                                                        u.t.
                                                                                                                                                                                                         ~., l,f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /},,>

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 At> Ill,£
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,;,_:,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                          t::,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
     Total              /17       .,u    1..1'1'   751/- ~/. 'Ill,            ,,11; .1/3 7'5' 7/.? P./ 1/1)/J,                l,.i;t ..U,2, '1111- £9.5 3PS' Ii~                U.:J. //3       ~n, 711,() ).6,() !/II).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
      Evaluation
 0-Balloon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
,l•Astlonom1cal




 4-Buds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
/S-Clouds. Oust, etc.
!6--lnsuffic.lnfo.
!1-PsychD~11cal
18-UnknoMI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
9-0lller


     Tot~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
      Evaluahon
•0.Balloon
:I-Astronom1cal
 2•Aucraft
                        Certain

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
i------------~--~+--=--+-'-'.......,f-'=-~l---.4-~l---=-l~-~~---'-+--'-+~-'+-,H-~-~-~'-+-~<-+~-+---+-~-~--
 3-L1ghl Phenom.
[4:S~
 S.Ctouds. Oust, etc.
 6--tnsuffic.lnlo.
 7-Psycholo&ical
 8-UnklloNI
 9-0lller
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
     Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
      Evaluabon
 0.Balloon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
 1-Aslrol'IOllical
 2-Ancr,H


 4-Birds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
 S-Clouds, Dus~ et~
 6-lnsuflic. -.11.
 7-Psydl>lo&ical
 11-Unlolo•
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
     Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                               134
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
I
I
                                                                                                                                                                              /?j(
I
                                                                             E//llL@Tltl/1/                      ?¥       c21/JEt!r             S/Gl(T/IV6S                             S/<;,1/T/N'G                    ,€'El./4t1/urv
                                                                             6/ft?vl"s                      /:1S-t7
                                         F ;-tELL E/f/r                                                   0 t?i:?P                                       /Jt1t1,;r,c- t/t-                                   P,:,cJ/4'
                                          lilmbef                 Per Cent                   Number                Per Cent                     Number                Percent                 Number                Per Cent
                Evaluation        Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total       ertain Doubtful Total Certain DoubtftJI Total      ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total


I   !O.Balloon
    "l·Asln>lllmical
                                  '1
                                   ]
                                          ()
                                           r
                                                    '1 1).5 00 /J.S ']
                                                     8 'f. If ,s.G 7S.0 'I
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                 if
                                                                                                            3 7 9 0. 0 7.'f
                                                                                                           /3 ln,7 ,o.s 13+. i
                                                                                                                                         f
                                                                                                                                         4-
                                                                                                                                         .s
                                                                                                                                                 '-I
                                                                                                                                                     I         {,
                                                                                                                                                               (J
                                                                                                                                                                     / I,. 7 3.J )O.( '1

                                                                                                                                                                                      ,, .,
                                                                                                                                                                     J.1. 3 /J.3 J{,.' '1            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                         '.3     n 11. 0 'f.J 17.i/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                tO t,. 0 I I/ I U-~
    !2-A1rtrlft
    I
                                   J       I
                                           0        0
                                                     3 (,,_). 3. I 1.3 6
                                                         0,0 0.0 0.0 0
                                                                                                 if
                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                           In    11$,Q
                                                                                                                  0. D
                                                                                                                         ,o.S 126. l                 0         5 "· 7 o.o
                                                                                                                                                               D      0. 0 0.0 0.0            "      4-         /3 13. 0 S8 I 8-8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  o. 0   o.~

I
    H•ihll'htnom.                  0                                                                        0            0 0  0.0 0              I)                                           0          0         0       0. 0
    4-Birds                        0       0        n 00 () 0 o.o ()                              {)         n    o.o fl. 0 0. 0 0               0             0     o.o o.o o.O              fl     0             0       0. 0   0. 0   0,0
    ~Clouds, Dus~ el~              0       0        n fJ.O n 0 0 0 t)                            0           n    o 0 0.0 0.0 (!                 0             0     Q.0 o.O o. ~             0          0         0       0.0    0. 0   o.o
    6-lnsuffic.-.ti.               Lf      0        LI /1.5 0 0 /J~ I                            0           I    2., n 0 U, If                 0             tJ     /.1.~    o.O /J.:i IS            0          I 5       u. 7   o.o    ]/. 7
                                                         0.0 o.o o.o {)                                                                                                       o.o 0, 0        ~      ()           2        'J.ff o. 0

I
        7,PsydlJlolic.al           {)      ()       0                                                        0     o.O o. 0 0.0 ()                             0          0                                                               1.9
                                                                                                                                                                     ".-, D.0 ,,,., IJ
                                                                                                 0                                              0                    /l
    I-Unknown                     IJ        0       / 2 .17.5 0 0 n.s o/                         0           1    23.') 0. 0 1.3.7 ,\           0              !                                     0          I 3 1$.8 o.O 18.9
    ~"'"                            I         ()      I .? I o. (\ 3.1 I                          I          2     :;.I:, l.L 5.;J I             I             l     .1.J J.J r, .,           3      I           'f  4.J /.I/ Lil

                                                    32 80. W8 100. 2'/ '!                                  38 1,.1 J.:J.7 /00. ').'f 6
I                                 :16                                                                                                                                                                           6'! 87.0 IJ.0 100.
               Totol                        (,,                                                                                                             JO 90.0 20.0 JOO. (,,0                   "I

                                                                              .E//At.///l; itlJt/                                                                                                                             -
                              '                                               c;,ee7v~s                         /f/5/


I
                                                                                             /
                                              £xt£lL£A/7                                                  0t?t?£)                                     !Jt?v.tl~rt/l                                      ;:},9,:, /('
                                          Numbef                Per Cent                Number                Percent                 Nuntier               Per Cent                Numbef               PerCmt
                Evaluation        Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobllul Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu Total Certain lloobtful Total
        II-Balloon                  I       0        I    17 o. 0 1.1                 Lf          I          5 !l5        3. I JU,        2       J            If    ·H 'I.B 'I.G              I         0         I       2q     0.0 J. q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  g        flf/ llf.7 ,: ,;
I                                  2        J       £/              JS If ]0.8 I I)                         14 31. 1 l].S 437                                        2./i 7.1 '/.'i
        1-Astronomical                                    /~.If                                  4                                        I      3             4                              3    .5
        2-Aircraft                 3       I        4     21. I      7. 7 ?0.8         t         0           (, 1'1.'f o. 0 I'?.~         ?      J             5     IJ g 7. / //. 9          L./ :?              (,       11.R   H      /7. 7
        3-Lilhl Phtnom.            0       0        0      0. 0      0.0       o.o      0        0           0 0. 0 1.0 0.0               I      I             2     7.'I J.lf 4-.SI           (l    0            0        n. o   o. 0 0.0
        4-Bints                    n       0        n      0. 0      o.o O· I  0.0                           I 0. 0 ? / J, I              0      0             0     0.0 0.(l 0. 0             D 0                0        0.0   Q. 0 0. 0



I       ~louds, Dus~ ek
        6-lnsuffit.lnfo.
        7,Psychological
                                   n
                                   0
                                   0
                                   4
                                           0

                                           0
                                            0
                                                    0
                                                     0
                                                           o. 0
                                                        0.0 n.o o. 0
                                                                     0 0


                                                     0 o.o o.o 0.0 0 0
                                                    Lf 10.0 D,o 1/l.8 I,
                                                                        0 0
                                                                        0 0
                                                                               0. O


                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                             0 o.o o.o 0. 0
                                                                                                             0 0 0 0. 0 0, 0
                                                                                                                0-0 o. 0 0, 0
                                                                                                                i<?,q 0. 0 J'I</
                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                          B
                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                               g
                                                                                                                                                               ".l
                                                                                                                                                                     0 0 o.o
                                                                                                                                                                     lf.P o.b 11.D
                                                                                                                                                                                      o. n

                                                                                                                                                                      'J,'I ')..'I 'I.IA
                                                                                                                                                                                              6
                                                                                                                                                                                               0

                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                     o.
                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                     D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  {,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  g 1H 0. 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            n. o n.o n. o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           h.t. 0.0 /7.t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0,0 0.0   O. I
                                           0                                0
                                                                                                            '                            /{      0                   35.7 (). () H.            9     0
        8-Unkno•                                                                                                                                              /S                                                                         ?1.(



I   9-0ltier                       0

                                  ,o
                                           0        0 0. O 0 q o. 0 0 0
                                                    n
                                                               !
                                                          1,., 2J.1,1on. ')(,
                                                                                                             0 o. 0 0.1) 00

                                                                                                           32 'il.2 lf.'l IOP. J :i. /0
                                                                                                                                          .:i    0             2     4-B 0,0 4.8

                                                                                                                                                             n. 7t.2 23.8 100. n
                                                                                                                                                                                               s     0            5        /4.7 0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                JLf 7f.lf JOG JOO.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /IJ.7




                                                                                             '                                                                                                       7
               Total                       3



I   r-
        I
                                               £ J'Ctt..L£IV7'
                                          Number                  Per Cent                       Number
                                                                                                            G t?OO
                                                                                                               Percent                 Nuntie,
                                                                                                                                               0t?t/6'7'rv'L
                                                                                                                                                             Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                                                                                                            P,:,,:,e
                                                                                                                                                                                                           PerCmt



I
                Evaluation        Certain Doubtful Total Certain lloobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Ooulltfu Total Certain Doobtlul Total
    1   0.Balloon                 10        7       /7     n $'.8 /'f.l 6S 37 101. IU ' If /7.(, H                                               5! 105 'I., '1. 0 Ji.< I 'I                         18 37 ?./ 7. 7 IS'.8
            l•Astronom1c.al       IL/      t        10    //. 7 LO ,, 7 77 37 /1 'f /l3                                  t.u /'f.7 'i9           )£ fJ< IQ. 'f 'f . ., IS'.o 11                      J2 'I 3 9.'1 1.lf I 'ii. 3
    I---
        2-Aucraft                 I IP     I1       19    /J.3 IO. Ji ]IJ./ lf..B (,6 I/ 3 'I //.7                       1/,'f J J. I    .H,     81 JI, 7 IS,) /lf.3 ]9.• '7 3                       16 '+ 'f 9.R       /£.t.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ' fl


I       3-L,;it Phenom.
        4-Birds

    ~~ds,Oust.etc.
        6-lnsuff1c.lnfo.
                                   2
                                   0
                                   0
                                   3
                                           0
                                           0

                                           0
                                            o.
                                                     J
                                                     0
                                                     0
                                                     3
                                                          I· 7 0.0 / 7 /,,
                                                           O 0 0 0 0.() 3
                                                           0 0 o.n 6.0 1
                                                          2 5 0 0 J..,; I 'I 0
                                                                                   I
                                                                                    R I q I. 0

                                                                                   .)
                                                                                           4 o.,
                                                                                           7 " 3
                                                                                         l'f  3 3
                                                                                                                          I. 'f
                                                                                                                         0.1
                                                                                                                         o.r
                                                                                                                         o.o
                                                                                                                                  1.1;
                                                                                                                                   .7
                                                                                                                                  I .l
                                                                                                                                         /7


                                                                                                                                   3. 3 11
                                                                                                                                          3
                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                 G I g 2. I I/ 3.1 (
                                                                                                                                                 3
                                                                                                                                                 ~
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                               ~
                                                                                                                                                                3
                                                                                                                                                                      0 5 o.,
                                                                                                                                                                     0.2      0. 'f
                                                                                                                                                             71 !]J, o.o 11.s S'S ()
                                                                                                                                                                                       /.(I
                                                                                                                                                                                        .(,
                                                                                                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                           f  ]./ (I. 0 1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                           3 o.q 0. If I 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0        Q.0   Q.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 55 :lJ.lf 0. 0 :n~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          o. 0



I       7-Psycholo11cal
        8-UnknoMI
        9--0ther
                                   0
                                  'f)
                                    7     0
                                           ()
                                           0
                                                     0    0.0 0. 0 0.0 2
                                                    fl. 3S.O DO J(O /J"l.i 0
                                                      7 S-8 o.O 5.8 2S :i
                                                                                  ()       2 D. ]                        o.o      o. 3 J7
                                                                                                           IS 'I ?,.r,, 0,0 U.t. ( d
                                                                                                            JO 'f.. 3 0 i         S 2 I'!
                                                                                                                                                'I-
                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                 2.
                                                                                                                                                             1 I 1 0 0 7 3·7 ;: ?
                                                                                                                                                             (,'f
                                                                                                                                                             11
                                                                                                                                                                     I 2.2    o.o 11.2
                                                                                                                                                                     J.t; o. 'I 3.8
                                                                                                                                                                                              -.ig
                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                         {)
                                                                                                                                                                                                         7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   g
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 38 /6,J o. 0 ,~.).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            :u, 0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Q.0   3,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         J.o

                                  '1 'f ) t 1:10 78. J i n JOO. 'f 2/ I 5'/ 580 n, Jl.'f ,()0. m /7S .J66 llf./ 30,j 100. ft'/ ~6 n, 7/.'f 18./ /QO.
I              Tot~




I
I
I
I
I                                                                                                                     135

I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                           1'/l(lL.t:
                                                               -fcLI /741 L. IT'



        Evatuahon
'0-Balloon

l!·.~~IDlll-.::::"'::_1_.J_.U.._j_i.J.__j_jr.L_JLl:..Ll-,':...i:-1-LLJLµ!Lj_:,_L-IL..l'.~e&LJ....LL.c.l..1µ;;<"'1---7aLJ...£.L.jL.!..Jie..+=4.il.!.L,.ll,__,LJ-~'----I-.....LI-.J..J.'....J..~&..µ=Ll,t.;t,_,;>_j
I 2.~·A:::."':::":::_ft_--'~Ll-'-L.j~i2..JfL~--"'..l'..+4'-14.J...,<cj.....L.:.L.j...lL.4-"-'"'1-JL,.L+,""'-'q...,n,,+""'-'-;+=4-,/,.L...J-..l<..f,~'.L!-t--LL+-....1L..J-..t..,t.....J-,(;.j...J-..%,..!,.q_.~4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
3-Liaht Phenom.
4-Biids
S-Clouds. Oust. etc.
6-lnsuffic. Info.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
7-Psydlllo11cal
8-Uwown




       Total


                                                                                                          tfLt.      StG tfTl/1/6 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
         Evaluation
    0-Balloon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
    l•Astrooomical


    3-Utf,tPtlenom.
    4-Birds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
    S-Clouds, Dust, etc.
,&-lnsuflic.lnto.
17-Psycholoeical
    8-Unkno'MI
9-0ther

I      Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
I Evaluation                        Number
                                               dll

                                              E ,;,t:t=.'-L.£/1/r
                                                          Per Cent
                                                                                        I


                                                                                    Number
                                                                                                  Gt?t?L7
                                                                                                           PerC01t                 Nuntier
                                                                                                                                                   ,(},,-, v6' 7 FOL
                                                                                                                                                         Per Cent               Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,,,;J-o"'
                                                                                                                                                                                                     PerCml
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                            Certain Doubtful Total Certain lloubtfu I Total Certain Dollllful Total Certain Doobtlul Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certan Doublfu Total Certain Dooblful Total
    0-Balloon                      I      tJ      I    ///      /J.tJ     /I I     /J        /J     tJ l'l.tJ 17,/J ,1;;              I       tJ         I    %,/,       /1,1   ?t;O         '7    /J               !iiJ.IJ    ~tl       "'111
    I-Astronomical             .t        tJ      /.    ??.~     ,?,-,    '/-??     I        /J       I '?.I /J. tl '?.I
                                                                                                       ,., ,, /ltJ /J,,,
                                                                                                                                     tJ       I       I       atJ      15:tJ 25"-0
                                                                                                                                                                        ,, ,, .,,.,,
                                                                                                                                                                                         0         tJ     tJ        IJ.tJ     IJ.()       ~"
    2-Aircraft                     /     I       .z, //./      //./      ?? ,,    /J         /J     0                                /J   /J          /J       '?"                       Ci        (l     tJ        /J.(J     OtJ        ao
                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,, >1p                      ,,.,,
    3-LiatitPtltrlOIII.
    4-Birds
    5-Clouds, Dust. etc.
    6-lnsuffic. ~lo.
                                /J
                               tJ
                               ()
                                /J
                                         /J
                                         /J

                                         tJ
                                         ,1
                                                  /}

                                                 tJ
                                                 /}

                                                  /)
                                                       /J/1

                                                       ,?/
                                                       ,?/J

                                                       /J.11
                                                               tl./1
                                                               /J(:l
                                                               ,?/1
                                                               /) /J
                                                                          tl,J
                                                                          /J/1

                                                                          ,?/7
                                                                        1/4!,:>
                                                                                  I
                                                                                  /,

                                                                                  /J
                                                                                  I
                                                                                             /J
                                                                                            /}

                                                                                            /J
                                                                                            /J
                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                     CJ /) /
                                                                                                     t?
                                                                                                            ?1

                                                                                                           /) /,
                                                                                                                    ,?,/J
                                                                                                                    /J /J
                                                                                                                    /?/J

                                                                                                      I fl ! ,'J_;J f1
                                                                                                                            '7. I
                                                                                                                            tJ,tJ
                                                                                                                            /1_.,,
                                                                                                                                     tJ
                                                                                                                                     /J
                                                                                                                                     /J
                                                                                                                                     tJ
                                                                                                                                          /J

                                                                                                                                          tJ
                                                                                                                                          /J
                                                                                                                                          /)
                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                      /)


                                                                                                                                                      /J
                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                              tl.tJ
                                                                                                                                                               ~.,,
                                                                                                                                                              IJ./J
                                                                                                                                                              /)(l
                                                                                                                                                                       /J./1
                                                                                                                                                                        /) /)


                                                                                                                                                                       /?/1

                                                                                                                                                                       /J rl
                                                                                                                                                                                tl.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                 ,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                ,1,?

                                                                                                                                                                                ,,~
                                                                                                                                                                                         tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                         /J
                                                                                                                                                                                         /J
                                                                                                                                                                                         '7
                                                                                                                                                                                                   /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                   /?

                                                                                                                                                                                                   /I

                                                                                                                                                                                                   ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                          /}

                                                                                                                                                                                                          ?.
                                                                                                                                                                                                             /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /1_/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '77.JJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /1,,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /1/1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /1_ /1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               /J/?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         11_/1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /7.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       31J.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
17-Psycholo(ical
    ~Unkno•
    '1-0lher
                               tJ
                               f
                                   I
                                        tJ
                                        0
                                         /J
                                                 /J


                                                 I
                                                       /J_/J

                                                 .f ff.!
                                                       Ill
                                                               /J./J
                                                               ao !.U
                                                               /J /}
                                                                         //_/1



                                                                         ti. I
                                                                                  /J
                                                                                  !,
                                                                                  .3
                                                                                            /J
                                                                                            /J
                                                                                             /J
                                                                                                     tJ ,?.J; /7 /2 J?.I,
                                                                                                     5' f5c; /J. IJ f;;
                                                                                                    ..! :t-U        /J_ () 27.5
                                                                                                                                     /7
                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                          tJ
                                                                                                                                          /J
                                                                                                                                              /        I      /1/,
                                                                                                                                                                       25:tJ 25.t
                                                                                                                                                      I 150 tl.tJ t!i,:,
                                                                                                                                                      0       (11_()   (2/J     tl-tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                         CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                         tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                         tl
                                                                                                                                                                                                   /)


                                                                                                                                                                                                   /J

                                                                                                                                                                                                  tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                          tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                          /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     "'tl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (}_/J /J./J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /J tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (J.tl


                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /J.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          //_il

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (}_L7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tl. b
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                          z                            ,o.o //'.)?
        Total                  ![       I        9 IR.1'9 //, I la?               II        tl      //    f{JCJ.1   tJ.IJ w.         :z              d       !,(Jt}                      d        tJ     d        I'"'<() tJ.tJ        /(l,:J.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
         Evaluatioa
    0-Balloon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
II-Astronomical

    2-A1rc_.::,aftc.:..__-4__.y__."'-lf-J"--1-""-'4....lL'-"'+--"'-'4--'+--4~'4~Zf-_:µ_-'<.j...Jl..<q...-'-'.'-+-.....t.4-'-'.'-+-.f61.lJ-(L..£.,cµ.<£:-t---LL+-....lL+.JL+..<=+..<"'-"'....+-1LL"-I
    l-L1et,t PhfflOtl.
    4-Bmts



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
    5-Clouds, Oust. etc.
    6-lnsuffic. ~ID.
    7-Psydll~&ical
    1-Unkno•




       Total                 /tl        CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                    136                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
I
I
                                [7!.i_Li![_

I
    I        EV11uabon


I   !ll-Bllloon
        l·ASIIDl'INIIICII

        2•A1mlft
    l --~
    jl-L1&fll Phenom.


I   4-Birds
    S-CloudS,. Oust. etc.
    ,6-lnsuff1t.klfa.




I
    7-Psydlolofcal
    &-Unkno..
    !1-0llle<




I
            Total                  ft}



                                7,,ULE                                     EI/AL.1/AT/OAI             ff          /lt.L.



I            Evaluation
    :!)..Balloon




I
        1-Astronomu:al
    !2-Aircraft
    il·LIPIPhenom.
    14-Buds




I   iS-Clouds. Oust. etc.
        S.lnsuffic.lnfo.
    ]7-Psycholo,:ical
    !&,.unknown



I       '-Other


            Toto!




I   i
        '
                                r,M1.e


                                          Number
                                                   /152.

                                                   £,fc'ELL="-
                                                                Percent                 Number
                                                                                                            GRCJul"s
                                                                                                    /4,?,::?0
                                                                                                           PerCmt
                                                                                                                                  ,
                                                                                                                                      S/Gf(77/V6S
                                                                                                                                         M11..1r,,9,ey-

                                                                                                                                   Nullmer
                                                                                                                                                            ~




                                                                                                                                                         Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                        -     L
                                                                                                                                                                                 Number·              Per Ce,!
                                                                                                                                                                                                              /?,,-, ~""


I
             Evaluahon            Certlin Doobtful Total Certain Ooubtful Total Ce1tain _,1u1 Total Certain Ooobllul Total Certain Ooubtful Total Certain Ooubtful Total Certain Ooubtfu Total Certain IJCllbtful Total
        0-Batloon                     Cl      /}      tJ    /},I.   /J. tJ i?,t       2.        I     5 .<() 5'.5 'f.5                        4       t}        (I 4f         tJ.O     .(f       I       (J      I   .f-.3     /J.tJ .13
        I-Astronomical               t,       5       5    I i i 17.1 2?5             .z             fi 5".tl £5.() 7/J.O                                   5fi 2/.f                             .!    Ii ti         1()./l   l,JJ./J 1/J/)
        2-Aircraft                   /J       tJ      (J    /7 /,
                                                                      "/     ~,,      tJ
                                                                                           'JI.
                                                                                            .!         3     ,,   /}
                                                                                                                           '16        ,fl;
                                                                                                                                              2'I
                                                                                                                                               2.     ,.
                                                                                                                                                     $/                       3'1.1( ~:'./
                                                                                                                                                                g 2.<I 1,3 '1 '1                j       J'J     5    IP-tl    /} /) 1/Ul



I                                                           t7.()                                                                                                                                       tJ
        3-LightPhS'IOCI.             t:       tl      /)             /J.t    /J_J>    11     IJ        tJ tl.tJ            /1/)       IJ.O    I)       /J       0     /)_IJ t7.tJ      /}.fl    0               IJ   tJ./J    0.0 0.0
        4-Buds                       I]        I       I   CJ.ti    5.9 J,.9          /1    tJ         IJ /j_/J         17./J /J.O            tl      0     0         ,7.JJ /J.tl      17.0      /J     /)      /J   /1 JJ 17. JJ     4/J
        !t-Clouds. Oust. etc.        0        I)      /J   11.JJ    /J.IJ    ll.ll    /7    /J         {l17.tl             /J.1) I] t)        JJ      /J     tl /J.t)             ~n   /JA      /)      I]     0     17.IJ 17.tl      IU
        6-lnsutf,c.lnfo.             17       /)      I)   /7.IJ    /J.n     11.IJ    ,;    17         4 lt?.tl         o.o /0.t              4       t7     I/ J,,1?         /J /}    11.9     /1      /)     (J    /1.P     /J./J   /J.(J




I   /7-Psytholoeical
        &-un1uw>..
    ICJ.-Ottie,
                                     I}
                                     C.
                                     ,;-
                                              /J
                                              0
                                              0
                                                      I)

                                                      ~
                                                           rJ.n     IJ.O
                                                           1,;_; IJ.IJ <?~5
                                                      5 211.i/      /}/}
                                                                             11.{l


                                                                            ?'N'
                                                                                     tJ
                                                                                      ?,
                                                                                     JJ
                                                                                            tJ
                                                                                            0
                                                                                            /}
                                                                                                      /J
                                                                                                       1,
                                                                                                       Cl
                                                                                                          17.tl
                                                                                                             5.0
                                                                                                             tJ.(i
                                                                                                                         ,J.O 0.0
                                                                                                                        (l.(l C /J
                                                                                                                        0. fl         0./l
                                                                                                                                              /J
                                                                                                                                              f
                                                                                                                                              t,
                                                                                                                                                      JJ
                                                                                                                                                      /}
                                                                                                                                                      /)
                                                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                                                            2-
                                                                                                                                                                JJ   /}_t)

                                                                                                                                                                      /1.0
                                                                                                                                                                     £.ti
                                                                                                                                                                              /)./)    ~n
                                                                                                                                                                              0.tl //. tl
                                                                                                                                                                                  AA   ?JI
                                                                                                                                                                                                /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                s
                                                                                                                                                                                                /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                        /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                        /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                tJ   IJ.t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                :, lt.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                               JJ     n,:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /J./J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (l.(J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              t7.(J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       tl.t:,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      //, 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /J./1




I           Total                  ;J         ;/     /~


                                                   Ass
                                                           '1L. :>~ 2.J.5 luv>

                                                                    E ///IL.(& O{MI
                                                                                     /{J   ?tJ       @ 25.tl 15:o //l(J,                     I/,;   :?'1    ~~       51.? '(§./ //J/7          11.    I ff    .f{J 4ftJ.(J !f/J.CJ /Oil.




I            Evaluation
        ().Balloon
    :1-AstruT1011111:al


I       2-Aucratt


        4-Buds



I
        S-Clouds, Dust. etc.
        6-lnsuff1c. -.11>.
        7-Psyth>lo&ical




I           Total




I                                                                                                                      137


I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
~---~-- - - - - - - - - -

i
                                    EJ'Ct=t..t.. E/t,T
                                                           -l'ELt.4/Ju,.1r//               GRtJd;"'S
                                                                                         Gooo
                                                                                                                          M/Ur,,'9,ey              C~se,en££S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
     Evaluation

0-Balloon --t-_,2__-l-~+----=---J-L:Z---ji-"'..lL-i-'"-.Ljl-.L.J--"'-l---'----l'--="--='+----"''--"-1---"""'-f-':+--'----+-'-',,-¼-=4-""""0<--i'=~--'+-----'-+-=+✓'c'+_,_,-'-t-'-"'-=--f
1-Aslruno::::••=ca:...I--------11-.lLl-__:!_µ~µ_p-+LEc~=...q_..!/,4_jy.JJ4=~=1Lf="--1-_L.+---'4-1.~=4---"'-'Lf-'~"-1---_,.,+_u.+--=.-¥-i,__,;+=z+="i
,1:..:.·•:..."'::::":::._"_-1_.lLJ_.tL.jC---'4.£..c'C..j...lL,.-'4..£."'-J--""-+_:,'---+---"'-+,..lt.,l.f-l:.Z...,"-+"""4-"'+--'+....:z.+=:.+-,'L/-+=+-~+---=+-=t.LC=+-"'-'"-¥=-<-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
3-L•&lit"""'°".
4-Buds
5-Clouds, Ousl etc.
6-lnsuffic. ~ro.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
7-Psydl>lofcal
&-Unknown




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
    Total




                                                                                                                                        Ooul!rFvt..                                      Poo_,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                    ;:-,r~c~.:.. c,1;r                                   0000
I                               Number                 Per Cent                Number                POfCOII                     Nurrtier              Per Cent                Number                   PerCmt
      Evaluation       Certain; Doubtful! Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobl~I Total       ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Oouhtfu   Total Certain Doubtful Total
'0-Balloon                     I    /J       I s.9 !?.ll          ~9        ~       /J    .t,   L.f       /) r,  t..9       ?       ,<I 1.J' 11.< 5,/ //../..             '7       I       f   //.5       i t ff/
                                            I/ 5.9 17£            ns                                      d-. 9 41.FI

                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
 I-Astronomical             I       j                                      //)      2.   /.Z,· :;,,(,;                      f       i'  // ?.f IIJ. ? NJ.                 ½       1?     /tJ   IJ I      .?..? 1.:.4'
l•Aimaft                    ✓           /   ,:; ?1,§      .c.f 2~-"         d        I     ;, d,S         ?.5 11.J'        /7       5   c2Z 2/f 1..t/ ?R:1.               /0      Cl     //)    /LA   £it? /~.'7
 J-L1ptPtleriom.            /)      0       /J   tl.cJ    /) /)   dtJ        /)     /)     /)    /J/)     /J./}   /) ?'     /}      /)      /J   /J/)    ,7./)   /)./)     61     tJ      ?'    O./)  tl.t? /J. /)
!◄-Birds                    /}      /J      IJ     -7.t   /J.t)   /) /J      /) .   /2    .0     /}/;     tl.t?   /}/J      /)     tl      t)    /J.IJ   /J/J     /).I)   tl      /)      tJ    IJ.t? O.tl dtJ
                                    ,,,,1                                                                                                        /J.tJ /) /J

                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
S-Clouds, Dus~ etc.         /J              /)   /J. /)   tJ.cJ /),I)        /)     /}     /J   ,1t?      /)_/)   {J.{J     /J      /)      /}                   at?      t)      /}      tJ    /J tJ    c?.t}   ()./)
;6-lnsuffic.lnlo.              ?i   /JI     ?    d.t      !?.cJ 11.t         /}     iJ    t)    /JI}      /JO /)/J        ,;~       ?'    ~.J 1'i.5      I? /J   '7th:    /7     ll      17 1179       /J.IJ ~7.j
(7-Psyct.>log,cal           v' !    ol      /)   0.0      /J./l /J./J       /}      t)    tJ tJ.t)        /J/J ,1/J         /J      ,,      o atJ tJ.O tl.t)              4       /J      4      £.(, /J. /J I,,/.
18-UnknoMI                  ✓       CJ      r/ JH (?.() 125.5                ?      I?    p ?/.0          /)()    fl./J     ,f     t)       1 9./J       ()I)    ¥.P      //      /}     ti /J'.I)       tl. t? /~/}
                                    17 I                                                   / .J.5 lhJ ~,;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
9-0ther                    (?               /}   17.t)    /~/)    ti(?       I      0                                       I       I      1.    ,.S     t...! 21.,        /     £l       /     It       //17 /.,t

    Total                /j'        4 I '7 :rt.5 iJ.5./Ptl.               1'-/,     .J' 1.9 ff.(, /~/ /t)tJ.               JtJ    I i 'fff .ti.~ 2.f.l /PP.               5r      ?      LI     fs.l 4'1 //),,_

                                                             i'Et.1/ltJ1,1rY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
1     Evaluation        Certain
 0-Balloon
 l-Astmnom1cal




 4-Birds
S-Clouds, Oust. etc.
6-lnsuffic.lnto.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
7-Psycholoeical
&,-Unknown
9-0ther


    Toti!                  J        I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
     Evaluation
0-Balloon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
1-Astmnomic:al
2-Aircrlft
l-L1p1 Ptlenom.
4-Bllds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
~Clouds, Dust. etc.
6-lnsuff1c. Mit.
7-Psydl>lo~cal
8-l)!known

"°"'"
    Total                 1,                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                         138
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
I
I
I   i
    l       Evaluahon


I   'o.e.,uoon
            -----1---"'-+-~'--+=-l-"=+'=---+"=+--=+-"'+--+"""'-+-~+-,=-~-=--~-+-f-L"'>Yf--L~--l-'-"-l-~l--'--'C--f_,_,_<=-,f---L=+==--t
        1-Astronom::::.'.=".:__I--jl----''"---f--"-+--'-.Z--lf-.Lc:Y_,,,,1-f-L"'~f---"'-"-+-"".«...Ji--""---+.L.LLf-__,,t_._-"---tq,..,'-+='--t--"'---+-='---t'<A-4-="-!"='--1-..u_+_.,'+-""',+'.;,.,,+=4uw"---t
    .iz.Ancr"1
    l~;;,·-p,-.,,-.-_--1-"'-''-!--'-'=--l-'-Ll-""""-l-=~=-.L<'----l--......'-+,,,_,,'--+.,,,,.,,<+-.,,.__.'-+'_,,,_,'-l-,_,,_-+-=-+'=+--=-r=,-,.----+-....,__+-~+---+-=-t-='-f


I       4•Bmls
    IS-Clouds. Oust, etc.
    j6-lnsuff1c.klfo.



I
        7-Psyctmloaic:al
        11-Unkno•
        ~Other
    I
    •-----t----+---+--+---t--+--+--+--,--t--t---,c---t--t---,--t----1c---t---,~-1--,-+--,--::,,-f--,i----,t----1


I          Total




    ,--
I            Evaluahon
        ·0-ea11oon



I
        I-Astronomical


        l·LifhtPllenom.
        4-811ds



I   !&-1nsuff1c.lnfo.
        7-Psychological




I   '
        '-Other


           Totll




I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I                                                                                                   139


I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                     /J6t2

                                                                             ALL          t/.c,,,<                11//7                          /9.1/&'
                                                                       1,11,,..,.,,., /ht.,,,, Miu"£. ;J,,fl.,, J/,;,,,,-,, tlRIE~n ! Al,11A,f£. lid'£,., 1/1,,,,,,te, /J,et,-- Al
                                                                                                                                                                                   111'?                  1?517                               /'1,;-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,:J. /,-.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /1~;!.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Al.,•• ,,, ~.;<'EM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
/.,,,me- ""' b. ,,,. wt;, Llu1rE
 J/J,cr,Q; L , , '

  f't1 ,.,,,.             ,,,,r ',r;9TE/J
                                                                             vs
                                                                             5'1''1
                                                                             .1/J't,
                                                                                              2',(2
                                                                                              17. Z
                                                                                              ;,i'.(,,
                                                                                                              fl{ 2.!.?
                                                                                                              2✓ 2,:J.5
                                                                                                                 ?/'J      ,Z,s.6
                                                                                                                                            .J/s-
                                                                                                                                            .5'6
                                                                                                                                            ?I
                                                                                                                                                          22-tl
                                                                                                                                                           17. (,
                                                                                                                                                           15. I
                                                                                                                                                                               f//
                                                                                                                                                                             t,tl
                                                                                                                                                                             J'f
                                                                                                                                                                                          2.!S"
                                                                                                                                                                                          15.Z
                                                                                                                                                                                            9.9.
                                                                                                                                                                                                      12-
                                                                                                                                                                                                     fi'I
                                                                                                                                                                                                     6/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.5'.!i'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2(,5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    19?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .?.f'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    26
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '7-<C'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .flf'.&'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /(,,3

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /5.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ¢~,t,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ;'22.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   25.t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 :?fl. L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /5. ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /.:2,f/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                        a,.,,." ,en
 /],,,, ,.,, E "Lbtt:l:v/A,{',
 1£11

 /4PE.-
            A,> /;L/JJ,,,A,/.                  .io
                    ~,. f?.t.,1,~1,i,,: G,('EEIV
                                                                             255'
                                                                              22,;
                                                                                                ?J'
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                -7-0
                                                                                                                     I,

                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                             51
                                                                                                                              (,tl
                                                                                                                              a9
                                                                                                                                           21
                                                                                                                                            ;,/
                                                                                                                                            /6
                                                                                                                                                           1/l. 2,
                                                                                                                                                               1,f
                                                                                                                                                               '( J'
                                                                                                                                                                             2ft
                                                                                                                                                                             .J':7
                                                                                                                                                                               ,r,tj
                                                                                                                                                                                            ,t, /

                                                                                                                                                                                           f..1/
                                                                                                                                                                                          IIZ
                                                                                                                                                                                                    :27
                                                                                                                                                                                                     /.?
                                                                                                                                                                                                          7             2-J'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        s. J'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .t/..2-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    It?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ltl6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,:,. J'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -{/{I'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   221'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /51{
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /2,t/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 // tl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   7f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   L.I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
 l,,.Hr/4~vw !1mA,e                                    1/,,,,.k   Al         .2.19              £..t              5          4. J'          1✓                 L.11            /9          ✓. fl     I!,                ¢.P           x'              5.tl         15,!           7. i'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                               f'7T



 VE . t   = ,,, r.°, ,,.,, .,,                   1/c           A.
                                                                             'l/?t              L.5°              Ji'         L.11          1Z,                ,:;-_P        '7.!.         <%             f             :1 9        II                L.9          /45            7,t
 ;f,VE Oi' (7LOW., •                              .t/,_I/E                   11/t;"            4.5                4         .J'.   41'           &"        .?- ,           :2./            6":J'         /I             ~I,          g                5:P           ,:;,:,        ✓~
 lf'L_,,t!,., ,,,,. 6.t.o,..,,,,,c, A~dt:K                                     I, '1            2.f                  ;/       ?.4            ''/'              S'¢'             ff         2.tl           6          .2.tl               /4        ..?ff           ,?I,           /. [{
/,;CN'T 6. ~- • _/,.pfr,::"~"''h·f::..,,_
 Ii.,,~£ r

 /4 0/JJ IV'-
                      ,,,;R    GL.,..,, ..,,,-
                              JC, n a
                                                       l✓ o-.Lr-T
                                                                               i.J'


                                                                                 t
                                                                                   ff
                                                                                                {l.,/

                                                                                                tl..5'
                                                                                                 17..J
                                                                                                                  17
                                                                                                                     tJ
                                                                                                                     /J
                                                                                                                             tl. ()
                                                                                                                            tl. tl
                                                                                                                             tl. tl
                                                                                                                                                 ,;_
                                                                                                                                                 tl
                                                                                                                                                 17        t20
                                                                                                                                                               /.tl
                                                                                                                                                           t?.tl
                                                                                                                                                                                ~

                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                            /.s
                                                                                                                                                                                           tJ.t?
                                                                                                                                                                                           t?. J'
                                                                                                                                                                                                          /)

                                                                                                                                                                                                          -7
                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /J.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /.tl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        t'l.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /26
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /J. 6.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /-2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,;,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,O..J'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 //. ,z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 02,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
  IOT"'L                                                                1201              10a                111           !t?O.         2/)5            1/l/J.         J?!i' ;tJtl.                ?1'L          /£)(,J           IL/J           ////}           '70/K' /£)0,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                       'I/J/ rr
                                                                        /Ju VEA,U
                                                                       A,.,~A<J'         IALu:
                                                                                               S/G#Tl/1/6

                                                                                                         .       /l/d7

                                                                                                                    l~,d',,,., .,
                                                                                                                                             ;t?, '~                               /4dQ                       /~ '5"0
                                                                                                                                       t2-et1& 'Af.nuhA :l.!,t",a,- Al.w§E, 1g,i1,,., !//J,.u4e, JilL('e" A/,-•E, 1-4,el'@
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /!15/                  ;,;5:2.,              I
                                                                                              //1 f                   27 ff
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
11.1.,•-e          /,.,     /4"-"       .~.       I.I.         -c            !./CJ                           21                    2?     17.t?    57' .24.fZ-         G"tl   ~.f'.9       ~? .24. I 41'7           .2¢.2,
 Mec~n              L •/                                                     1/22             /(,.§"         2.:2,,   22.1        .?tJ   ;ff,      ..?7    /5.7        f'tl    /9, I        2.S- lfi'.Z 26&'" 1s.t.
lt'/J£M              A,OT         S',MCA                                     J'2;,            /2.7           2.2- 22.'1           23     15'.tl    2?       /1.tl     42.,,   -:J/J_ I     23      /t.! lf'f //.0
/),7.v~/4r ;_,L ULO,- · ,,,, l'),,,,All',e                                   253                ti, 'i          ..?     ..?.I     /6     /(}.~      1R       '/.?        I,    2.f         ;,/ 1t:1.:Z. 196 //.✓
 htJ o,e ;:;L_
 /:..,rr.,

 , ,, ,,.     (';, .,
                                  ,.,,_ R'c"
                     /J;! GLOW/Jl,r. /,,££A,,

                              <i7,o,, -- l'. .•
                                                                             :?tJJ'
                                                                             /'TK
                                                                             /7K
                                                                                                'f.t/
                                                                                                ,:._9
                                                                                               '( tl          ;'
                                                                                                                 ✓
                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                        LI_ I
                                                                                                                              J.t)

                                                                                                                             I/ I
                                                                                                                                    q     ;:,-q
                                                                                                                                           1:,

                                                                                                                                           it?
                                                                                                                                                    '7j'    (j_ 7
                                                                                                                                                           t;f
                                                                                                                                                          t,,5"
                                                                                                                                                                       21
                                                                                                                                                                          :?£
                                                                                                                                                                          1.1'
                                                                                                                                                                              /0. tl
                                                                                                                                                                                         11.0
                                                                                                                                                                                             t;


                                                                                                                                                                                          !,.!,
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ✓.// ;;/o
                                                                                                                                                                                                     /tl
                                                                                                                                                                                                     II
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      f;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ✓ ¥'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1>..?                7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7       5./
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S./
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1/i.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1-"i'.J'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 L. 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ~'1'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
 ti: --
l&ve
/JL,Qt',r
                     .,.,, {,LA

                  ,,,,, f?Ln
                   ,,,, /2.t.n,
                                         ;lb/.


                                        "·"

                                           f?,11a
                                        ,.,,
                                                      !?,.,_
                                                 //LL.It
                                                                             1 ff!i
                                                                             1.21
                                                                              59
                                                                                               7. 2,.
                                                                                               4. 7
                                                                                               .J'.3
                                                                                                               7
                                                                                                              ,j'

                                                                                                              ✓
                                                                                                                            di
                                                                                                                              7 2,


                                                                                                                             ,I./
                                                                                                                                           /(?

                                                                                                                                             L
                                                                                                                                             6
                                                                                                                                                          t,.!>

                                                                                                                                                           7.9
                                                                                                                                                           ?.t/
                                                                                                                                                                          /{,
                                                                                                                                                                          II
                                                                                                                                                                           6
                                                                                                                                                                                          £.S'
                                                                                                                                                                                         ~7
                                                                                                                                                                                         ;}.!,
                                                                                                                                                                                                     //
                                                                                                                                                                                                      i,
                                                                                                                                                                                                         t;         ✓-..?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6-.?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '/_ti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ff'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ft'     5.%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  sx
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ?.'1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /35
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   J?Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   J'j'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1' ,If
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .1' ,r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
L6NT ✓,;,"                    /4_.,,,,,,,,.,.,F I!,,"'                                         o.d                                                                                                                                                0, 7


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                         0                              I
 Jn/1J..~ r           /UJ      c~n,., AJ6             //,,,.(.,{:/             .,
                                                                              /0
                                                                                               17 J'
                                                                                                               tl
                                                                                                               (J
                                                                                                                            1717
                                                                                                                            tl.0
                                                                                                                                             ?.
                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                          /,3
                                                                                                                                                          tl.tl
                                                                                                                                                                             t)_

                                                                                                                                                                             /J
                                                                                                                                                                                          /J.i'
                                                                                                                                                                                          l?.tl           ;J;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   JJ. tl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I. CJ             /           /J '1'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               /J,g

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /2 2.,
I: L.OU/111//2                 ;;,,n,,                                          t,             tl. t,          /J           Ll.O              0           17.0                 I          /J.t/            I        ,?.&;             0           0.0                ✓         O:Z.


7.~,,,                                                                  2554 ;a?                         f'?'             /tlO.           /;,.J         lcltJ.          2.?i,           lt'O        209           /tltJ.          /..?'7          //,lt7.         /'IV        /tltl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                        //,.,.
                                                                       ,,.
                                                                                        (~,.,,

                                                                                        1"2    t',-,.
                                                                                                                  t'I,,,                     ;Q,(lf'

                                                                                                                          a. f.e,i, :w,,~A& lhl't
                                                                                                                                                                             /9~9                      l?.s-o                 JI/!,/
                                                                                                                                                                                       1"2&,., JJ,,~,J,& 14,.17,.,., IAlw.... ,., t.~&,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /95,z_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /)/,,-,A,A   ,IJ,,lb,.,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
/. J, ·,~ -        ;J,P r,J.Fl,.        A,       h/111.rE                    'o/'/         .23.5         ~z                27.%            2:>           /7.=,           4'.?            23'.I      ✓41'            2t.o            2'7           ??..J          .J'5(.       2.?. 7
 fv/ETAL.            ,a

l.1 nll? .. ,..,_ S-r,AT.eA
/J,,, .. r- ,,,, C. ~· •,/. /7,,...,,,,LE
                                                                             7-rl)

                                                                             271
                                                                             '721
                                                                                              ,:17
                                                                                           12.s-
                                                                                           1tl. /)
                                                                                                         :?-0
                                                                                                             ;f?

                                                                                                              .?
                                                                                                                           ?5:5
                                                                                                                           2..2t
                                                                                                                            ..?.i
                                                                                                                                           '79
                                                                                                                                           ,2_(

                                                                                                                                           /I,
                                                                                                                                                         2(). .?
                                                                                                                                                          ;✓-7
                                                                                                                                                          II. 2,
                                                                                                                                                                         _?;,/
                                                                                                                                                                         d
                                                                                                                                                                         /_'j
                                                                                                                                                                                         /J?.J'
                                                                                                                                                                                         /Ll. Z,
                                                                                                                                                                                          g I
                                                                                                                                                                                                    J'6
                                                                                                                                                                                                    JI
                                                                                                                                                                                                     5"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,:?/. j'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /K'...J'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     :zo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   22,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /2,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IR.2-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /.!?Z,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9. ?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,2.✓,f'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I.ti?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ;7/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1£.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               /tl.;7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              //. .f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                              -                                                                                                                                                                                     ~.,...
1,.¾,1    ,,,I)




L1L,lfr bLO;v /'nLO-'
                      /,.

,,:,,,eEAI p,e GLoun/116 G~F£111
                                  ;N/..       .f'Et>


                                              . .nr K,i,; ...
                                                                             ;'/'9
                                                                             11/✓
                                                                             1-.2.
                                                                                              !< I
                                                                                              i..6
                                                                                              ,t,_'7
                                                                                                              .J'
                                                                                                              tl
                                                                                                              ¢
                                                                                                                            '.l
                                                                                                                            t?.O
                                                                                                                           5j
                                                                                                                                  t

                                                                                                                                          10
                                                                                                                                             f
                                                                                                                                           ;2.,,
                                                                                                                                                           5.t
                                                                                                                                                          51.d
                                                                                                                                                          7, tJ
                                                                                                                                                                         19
                                                                                                                                                                         21
                                                                                                                                                                        /.Z.
                                                                                                                                                                                         ;tJ. ;2,
                                                                                                                                                                                         j/.J'
                                                                                                                                                                                         f,,5
                                                                                                                                                                                                     /&,
                                                                                                                                                                                                         g
                                                                                                                                                                                                         f'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    47
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ✓. '/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I,


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '7'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5.t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SJ'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4. /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 127
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ~/..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /If
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1(5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,U/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '7.~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
~uo.,,,.,, Pl'                                   Vcuo~                   /5 9                 '1. 2,         3             .?1              9             /., '?        /.2,.            (,,5:       J{            ¢. 7             7             5:3'          /Lt?           J?. tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                          r;£AW/N6

/4.v£         o,e 61.PLV,-;r,,t::..             &ve:                         f?               ,I z           z             2-5             ~             ?.5             s-              ::1.7       t             g_ I,            7             ,;-,K'          d'.         // .,-
.J': nh., n,P f?i.OL.v//ld~ ~AL!r                                            ,, '/            :J. (,         4'            5/               /.           dZ              5               2-7         s            .?.O              d             .?..3'          f.f         2,2..
                                                           (p,,.                               t1. .3         tJ                            2,-           /.4             £1             /J.O                      ao                             /J. .!?           d           /JS
J , £ u r GLOW fmA£T£,,,_.,tN,4T,;
                                                                              ,,
                                                                               7                                           O.tl                                                                      /}                              I
ll,✓lL£r OL ,-;LO;,, A,,6 //,.,, & r
CLI'?,.       A~            r.RAV                                              ~
                                                                                              0.?.

                                                                                              {J.Z,
                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                            0/J
                                                                                                                            ().0
                                                                                                                                            /)

                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                          0/J
                                                                                                                                                          0. 0
                                                                                                                                                                          (l

                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                         0 tl
                                                                                                                                                                                         0.5"
                                                                                                                                                                                                     /
                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /J. /4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /J. /4           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I            LU'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,t?.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    _J'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .J'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IJ. 2,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,:J.   z   I
                                                                        1.f 9 9                              :f P                         1,-/q        /a;:!            /Rt,           /tlO         //.9         1tJO             Iii           /tlO.           /£0/ /tlO,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
7".?-09£                                                                                  ;,J(J.                          /tJO.




                                                                                                                                            140
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
I
I
I                                                                    EJ//tLWu
                                                                         .?.:: Cle,
                                                                                                      /.?r       A.t.L.           SIG/z'V4(6S'             Eae        tf.t.L             f(E,£,<'.s




I
          Evahaahon




I   4-Birds
     ► Clouds, Dusl etc

     6-lnsuffic. ritl.



I    7-Psydmloiical


    9-0ther




I        Total




I         Evaluation
     ~Balloon



I    I-Astronomical


     3-Llehl Phmom.
    !4-Birds



I    6--/nsuffic.lnfo.
    !7-Psycholo11cal
    IS.Unknown



I   9-0tne,


         Total




I   !
    : Evaluation
                             ),'£-.,.,w M t:uw1Nr; y..,-,.,.,w
                                      Number                   Percent
                                                                                  /3J vF oR /.'.uw1N6' f;i;.vr
                                                                                       Number                 PerCOll
                                                                                                                                  /3:,.c,,,. <?Ii' Ct.ow,,,.,,; BLAcK
                                                                                                                                       Nunter                Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                                                                   /MfT &~W JNt>.rT,RMI/Y~TFf?.,,_,,,.
                                                                                                                                                                                      Num~r                 Per Cent


I   io.s~loon
    !t-Astronom1cal
                             Certain Doobtfu I Total Certain lloublfll I Total Certain Doimlflll Total Certain Dooblflll Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doublflll Total Certain Doublfll Total Certain Dooblflll Total
                                II
                               J't
                                          'i "J.7
                                        :t I uO I~     "·' "·r,_37 ,_q   J.'i
                                                                 o.s 13 JO
                                                                                   5
                                                                                  ,1.~
                                                                                          I
                                                                                         J..~ ,3
                                                                                                ~..l
                                                                                                I,
                                                                                                 ,,1,
                                                                                                                Al
                                                                                                                ().J
                                                                                                                        1·3
                                                                                                                        :l.3
                                                                                                                                    s
                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                           7
                                                                                                                                           ::l
                                                                                                                                                 1,
                                                                                                                                                  3
                                                                                                                                                       A.~ r,.:i
                                                                                                                                                       O.J     /1/
                                                                                                                                                                        A.4
                                                                                                                                                                       /J.2.        0
                                                                                                                                                                                     I       t)
                                                                                                                                                                                             5
                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                      .s
                                                                                                                                                                                                           t).J
                                                                                                                                                                                                           1).0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    o.l r,. I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    b.~ #,1
    i2-Aircraft
    r-·                        :U       /']    L).2.   e).'i                             ltJ ~o I.!,
                                                                                                       ,.,      "-' IU             I 2.     sr   ~D A,4 11.1 A.b                    3         I       4    IJ.I     11. I   t}.Z


I   ,l•L1fhl PhflllOtn.
    14-Birds
    )5-Clouds., Dust. etc.
                                 '1
                                 I
                                 I)
                                         ~
                                          2.
                                          I
                                                 CJ
                                                 3
                                                IM
                                                       t).3. 0.1
                                                       t,. I 0./
                                                                 iM o.,
                                                                         /,3
                                                                         /J.::t    ()
                                                                                   D
                                                                                    I     n
                                                                                          D
                                                                                          3
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                J
                                                                                                 I

                                                                                                       ,.,
                                                                                                       b.lJ
                                                                                                                ().0
                                                                                                                 D,O b,O
                                                                                                                        0,/

                                                                                                                 0,1 1,,/
                                                                                                                                    ~
                                                                                                                                    n
                                                                                                                                     n     3
                                                                                                                                            I)
                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                  n /J.D ,.o
                                                                                                                                                  I 0./J 0.1
                                                                                                                                                  3 0./J
                                                                                                                                                                       o.o
                                                                                                                                                                       "·'
                                                                                                                                                               "·' "·' " 0 t>
                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                             n
                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                             I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                                                                                                                      /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                           IJ./
                                                                                                                                                                                                           IJ.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                            I./)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /}./0,2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I.O 1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IJ.D    IJ.D
    l6-lnsuH1c. -.111.
                                 ,.
                               /(,       () lb M                 (),0    JI'       4,     ()    ,4, Q,1
                                                                                                       ,,        IJ,0 ,,. I        II       I)   1D .,,,3 /J.D 4.3                  I)                     /).()    A.O /JO


I                                                             t>.D ,,. 34 0 34 /./
                                                       "·',., /J.o
    ;7-Psychological                     I)    :J.                   I   /J.       -2-    0     2.              IJ.O /J./            4      0  4 /)./ IJ.b /J.I                     I)       0        ()   /)..f)   11.D IJ.D
    ls.unkno•                 4-J         l •1-3-                                                               O,IJ /. I          /2       0 /:I. 4t4 I)./) 4.4                    I        D        I    1.t      /J.D 0./
                               5         t:, S' I).~             D.O /J.J                 n                                                 t>                 l}.D                 p        n                      /).() (}.I)
    i~ther                                                                         'l,          '2.    I.I      IJ./J I.I            "Z           2    /J,/
                                                                                                                                                                        "·'                           0    II /J
    I
                                      .,. .~ ~,,
I   I Totll                  /5 6                      4.'j      1.J, i,.J 1/JL 3'! l'fS              3.~ I.~ 4.6 41, ::l/ ,1                          /IL     t).7
                                                                                                                                                                        ~-' " 1 /3                         /).;I,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ~-'     1),4-




I         Evaluabon
                             Vtour OR c,_OW/NG V1t>.L,!'T
                                    Ill-                   Per Cent
                                                                                  b;..;JW//VC /. o. ... y
                                                                                   Number                Per Cent                Nu-                    Per Cent                 Number                  PerCOll
                             Cert•• Doublflll Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total ~eitain lloubttut Total Certain Doublflll Total Certain IJoubtful Total Certaill Dou!Jtlul Totll
                                                 I                       "·'                     I
    !O-BallOOfl
    0-
                                 /)       I            IJ.()
                                                                 /),/               I     /J           /J, I    /).()
                                                                                                                        "·'
I   ;J-Astronoftntal
     2-Aircraft
     3-Lio,I PhfflOII.
    4-Bnds
                                3
                                 I

                                 ()
                                 I)
                                         0
                                         I
                                         0
                                          I
                                                4
                                                 I

                                                ,.,
                                                 I
                                                    ,.,D.I

                                                       IJ.O
                                                       fl.O
                                                                 O.Oi 4,/
                                                                 "·' IJ.:l
                                                                 t,,D I) ll
                                                                 A.Di ,.o
                                                                                    /J
                                                                                    I
                                                                                    II
                                                                                    I)
                                                                                          I
                                                                                          D
                                                                                          I
                                                                                          ()    0
                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                       Ar,
                                                                                                       b.l
                                                                                                       "'"
                                                                                                       l,l'J
                                                                                                                 /)./
                                                                                                                IJ.t.
                                                                                                                        "· I
                                                                                                                        "·'
                                                                                                                /J,I II I
                                                                                                                A.{J    IJ.b

I    S..Oouds, Oust. !le.
     6--lnsuflic. ._.,_
     7-PsydmloJical
                                " n0 "
                                0
                                0     0
                                         ()      t,
                                                      D
                                                        All
                                                        n
                                                       /J.fJ
                                                       II.I
                                                                 /J,l>i ll.l
                                                                 /J ,,, I),£
                                                                 .0.61 /1/1
                                                                                    /I . /)


                                                                                   II     t)
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                f)
                                                                                                       o.,
                                                                                                        r, I
                                                                                                       /II
                                                                                                                /J.IJ
                                                                                                                A.II
                                                                                                                /J /I
                                                                                                                          Ar,
                                                                                                                          l},f,
                                                                                                                          0,fJ
    8-Unkno•                     I
                                   ,, I "·' O.tJ
                                         /) /J.b IJ.I 4                                   I)    ,4.    /J.I     /J /l   ,. I


I   t-Ol,e,


         Total
                                IJ

                               .s       3
                                                ,." ,.~
                                                 ,'IA   n
                                                       d.:J

                                                                 0.1 /J.3
                                                                                   0

                                                                                   I,     l
                                                                                                ()

                                                                                                X' b:;J
                                                                                                       /1,,     IJ.t. JI ll
                                                                                                                n.l 113


I                                                                                                              141

I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                   rt>mber
                                            7PrA
                                                         Per Cent
                                                                           (!,t),:.


                                                                                 Number
                                                                                       'L5          #,=,e,c;,e7£,1
                                                                                        Wh'/TF ,,,;;, /;"~ >W/NG Wu/J"T
                                                                                                       Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                       N.rr,1. 1 //1'
                                                                                                                                                     Number                 Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                              /     /JJ/1&>
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                               A/tJr .!irArf.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PerC<nl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                           CtllJin Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total ~ertain Doublful Tolal Certain lloul>tful Total
                                                                                                                                               ,.,
                                                                                                                                              ertain Doublful Total Certain Doublful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
         E'llluation
    o..e,uoon              2.:l'I IS-/ 37f 'H S.'l /11,I ti                                               .2.a l. I 1/,S
                                                                                                     j'"p /I/                                          J,l.   f? ,2.S           /,3 3.$       l.8     ;2./    fl<'     I.I     {}, '{     /,'/
    1-Astsormical          1i:3 ;z:,-, .13'1 IS-.0 ;M ;.s:p 1]                                    £7 /ltJ ',l, .J.,6 t,2. K                              r 17 11.3 tH tJ,7                    7~      It 39 {}, 'l             t?.6      1£
    2-Ancraft              ~'12. ;LJ.r          s-.n
                                            //,JI.                9,;L 'JtJ.6           Jl.'l     ,a /PJ I '! J., I JI,,(} r'I                         5'J/- /i/2 J',lf J., I ss 3.2                  /6 116 /,3               0.6 !,'I
                                                                                                                     t1,/      /.J Ml                   II 7 P./ (),.2 tJ.3                                                     ti. 0./
                                                                 t'.'J .Z../
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
    J.L•lht P'tlenom.        3.L 2/ .rJ /,J                                              3            j"        I/                         ?                                          /)               /    I /?.O
    4-Birds                  /3    /{7 ;2,!             a, P.lf P.Y
                                                             II                                      ;z.        I    (1,)..    CJ.I ,:;i3 3             I       )f tl.l /},/ /J.2    fl.              I   s-- t?..l-            tJ,/ tJ.J
    ~Clouds, Dus~ •I~        3              7  0.1 e,3 ~II I
                                                 //)                                                  ::{       II   tJ.J      t?.J I), :z I            /)      I t?.I (),/) t?. I   I                tJ  I tJ,J                /J.P 17,/
    ~Jnsuffi~ ~lo.          ?£/    t) l.:L.// ia;.. P.O ldi ,JJ                                      ()     S"h      .2.,/     1),0 Z.I JJP            {) 11-P /.6 #.0 /,6         ;ti)               tJ lt? 2.7                 ao 2.7
                                    r #) /,I- tJ.1/- J.5' 'I                                                 10 t),3 M /).II                            I '1 tJ.3 rJ./ l!.I/ I                                tJ.J.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                          f
    ........                                                                                                                                    '
    7-i'sydllloaical         36                                                                      ;J_                                                                                              tJ                       {J./)     (7..l-
                           1117 () J;.f7 Jf.S tJ.o lf.S /?/                                          /)     /.JI S:I P.O S:I Ya                         0 f/ ti 3.J             /},J J,3      71      tJ 7/ H{                 /J./)2:1
    9-0lller                 '/). ;u,r ;;w 3. 6 /,/ 11:7 /'j                                         I       ~ P. 7 /),/ rn I ,                         0     .2 I   a6        tJ. J. 0,8'    29      {  :,s /, I              tJ.2 /.3

i       Total              /~J7 717 J.sr+ 71.9 H.1 lt't?. /I),} /!7 11/J lt.t                                                 7,..3 123.'l 31.> liJ7 JI». IJ..-1 11,2 /1.S J_JJJ.                     cl .1J.S /0.J ;L.,1/- /'J..,7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
I Evaluation
    JI.Balloon
                           /),:,,J.v~r /10 6 '/1LV/UC/J/?A.V~L,



                            16
                                      Number
                           Certain Ooobtful Tolal Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtlul Tolal Certain Doubtful Total
                                        /{)     ;26     a6
                                                                Per Cent

                                                              P.1/ /,/) /3
                                                                                 Number
                                                                                                f?EI? t'R
                                                                                                       Per Cent

                                                                                                  IP ;z3 as t?.11 M
                                                                                                                     /A,AH,Vt:




                                                                                                                           1
                                                                                                                                  g.= /.oc*" /JR,(',,""'"" /.!orrA/ L11'"T L'. pU/ /',,,,,DAliJT,r,,,,,,,


                                                                                                                              () .3 j./
                                                                                                                                                     Nuntier               Per C<nl                Number               PerC<nl
                                                                                                                                              ertain Doubtful Tolal Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu Total Certain Doubllul Total
                                                                                                                                         ao O.I II/                                                   /tJ .2Lt tJS              0.1/- t?.'l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
    1-AsbarlDllital
    2-Airtraft
    Hi&JIIPh"""'.
    4-Birds
                             /b'J
                            ;z;
                             Jp
                              l
                                       ~'(
                                       ::Z6 ll'l
                                        t)
                                        /
                                                D6'

                                                /tl
                                                 3
                                                        l.l
                                                        ~'I
                                                              /. I 2..7 so
                                                              /,0 /,9 23
                                                        /).I/ a() M·
                                                        Cl! /),/ 0.2 t'
                                                                         I
                                                                                                      7/ 2.b t?.'I 2,1 ~ 70 1.:n ..2.0 JJ J/.7 :?7
                                                                                                  ,,:Z/
                                                                                                  17 ~ /),9 0,7 1.6
                                                                                                  ;z_ 3 /J,/ C./ t.2 ;z_ {)
                                                                                                                           7  f 17 tJ,3 tJ.4         ,;
                                                                                                                                    t.l /J.P iJ. I /I.
                                                                                                  tJ tJ /}./) /),() IJ,fJ tJ () {) 1),0 0.0 ,:Jp /)
                                                                                                                                                               .z.
                                                                                                                                                                                       n
                                                                                                                                                                                                       9 //£ /,If
                                                                                                                                                                                                      7,

                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.
                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                              II~ P.</ /, 0 J,f
                                                                                                                                                                                                               6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      P.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       o.P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ml        /, 'I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 fl,/ tJ,3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 tJ./ t),/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
    S-Clouds, Oust. etc.
:6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
    7-Psychological
                               !
                               ,
                             /'I
                                        ti
                                        /J
                                        J'
                                                 0
                                                I'{
                                                        M
                                                        0,7
                                                           av (),0 j
                                                           tl,O /).7 / t
                                                    1' ai. ().I m J'
                                                                                                   I

                                                                                                     tJ
                                                                                                        I M al ~I t? /) t) (J,() ao ().j cJ
                                                                                                   () /'{ {),7 IJ./? tJ.7  f () 1 0./.I tJ.() o.tl· 211-
                                                                                                             t?I IJ,/) rJ.J tJ
                                                                                                                3'                                     t)     t)      (JD      /).{)   ao      /}
                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                       /}
                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                              2.LJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       l!,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1),9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      {),{)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 a; ()./
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (),{)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                tJ,I tJ.I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         tJ,'l    I
    8-Unknown               .)5         /)       ,5 2,'J. t?.t? l.t.2 35'                             /) JS- /,Ii M /,4 I</                             /)    /'7    M         /),/)   h
                                                                                                                                                                                              , t'tJ 5 M tU tJ.9
                                                                                                                                                                                              71J             7/J..             tUJ


I
    9-0lher


        Total
                               'l

                           /77 76
                                        (        /7 /),If tl,3 IJ.7 7
                                                7,-1    M         3,J '!. 'I 150
                                                                                                     2    9 t'.3 t),J '7,/1. 1

                                                                                                 J3 ~.3 s-.7 J., I
                                                                                                                                                        I      I/-   t)./      t)/     ~I
                                                                                                                                       7,11 '1~ &'P 117.., J,7 3,/ t.r ;;u 11-'1 171 ;.I
                                                                                                                                                                                                            /7        t).,Z.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                               /,'f 7. p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
I
                           Y.c-Jlt)W A D / . / ,uhA"'1 ~ ; / ,.,,.
                                   Numbe,                Per Cent                Number
                                                                                        Run~ AO
                                                                                                       PerCmt
                                                                                                                /2 ,,,,,-,,,..,f}_JJ~ IA",- AC.-f' /JO/.. .,,,,.,,, ,0 .,,,._,,, I,, ,rr£! ... I
                                                                                                                               Nurrd>er              PerCeat                 Numbe(               PerCmt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        i1""
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
         Evaluation
    JI.Balloon
    I-Astronomical
    2-Aircraft
                           Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doublful Total Certain Doobtful Total Certain Doubtful Tolal Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu Tolal Certain Doubtful Total

                             /7
                             ::/,;J
                                          9 :.J.£
                                      17 S-/
                                                 t),IJ /. I
                                                C.7 2,0 /M /C £1? /.1
                            .22 /I!' 38' /).9 0.6 IS /tl
                                                        Cu
                                                        1,3
                                                            ~   I S tJ,,2

                                                                ~ /9 tUI
                                                                                                                               t),/
                                                                                                                              ,1.6 2.,
                                                                                                                                       .).3
                                                                                                                                          .;-    ;, / 7

                                                                                                                                          I ,::; I
                                                                                                                               till M /2 ? /9 tJ,S
                                                                                                                                                        t?.2
                                                                                                                                                        t./
                                                                                                                                                                               t?.3 tli
                                                                                                                                                                                tJ.() t?. I
                                                                                                                                                                               tJ.3 M
                                                                                                                                                                                                I  tJ I
                                                                                                                                                                                               t? .2 2
                                                                                                                                                                                               ?       I      4'-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       t?.I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       r).()   N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                tW al

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IJ./ tJ,f tV-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         tJ,f     I
    3·Li&f\l Pheiom.
    4-Birds
    S-Clouds, Oust. etc.
    6-lnsuffic.lnfD.
                             0
                              ?

                             t)
                                  2


                                  I
                                      f' t?.J /1,/ tJ,11. I
                                 ;2 .2 ~o t),J /)./ tJ

                            JS- t'} /.S- cu (J./) ~b 3
                                                               CJ

                                        I IJ,() ;J,f ~/ C t) 0 t?.O
                                                                    I (7,/
                                                              tJ C) ti,O

                                                              tJ 3 /.I
                                                                                                                                v.O o.l tJ /} CJ O,t
                                                                                                                               (),ti CU) C)
                                                                                                                              tJ.o t),{) tJ I
                                                                                                                              rJ/J (?,/ /ti
                                                                                                                                               I      I tY./J
                                                                                                                                                     I IJ.t)
                                                                                                                                              tJ It? al/
                                                                                                                                                                                tJ.O   {),0
                                                                                                                                                                                tJ. I t?. I
                                                                                                                                                                               ,::J, I /},/
                                                                                                                                                                                ao tJ.4 tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                               I / 2-
                                                                                                                                                                                               ,::; ,?! t:?
                                                                                                                                                                                              tJ      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                      /?
                                                                                                                                                                                                              t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                              t:?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      t?,/ tJ. I tV-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0 "-0 tJ.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      tJ.t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      tJ.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               t),tl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               tJ, {)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         t).tl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         cu>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
    7-Psycholoaicat
    8-Unkno•
    9--0ther
                             2
                            1/,
                             3 2
                                 ~
                                /;
                                      2   tJ./ 0 /) C./ I     I   2 t?.I
                                     '1£ 1,4 O.tl /.If .2'1 0 29 I./
                                       ~ t.! 11.I h. .L tJ         ;;_ a,
                                                                                                                              // /),7.. 3
                                                                                                                               /J,{) /, I
                                                                                                                                               / ~ ~I
                                                                                                                                          9 ,::; '7 ;J.1/
                                                                                                                               t'.O {?,/ C) ;z_ ,;z, tJ,{)
                                                                                                                                                                                ti,/ 4'7
                                                                                                                                                                                j,1) M
                                                                                                                                                                               tJ.I ,M
                                                                                                                                                                                               p
                                                                                                                                                                                               I  t}
                                                                                                                                                                                              ,?i ,::?
                                                                                                                                                                                                      C)      /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                              t:?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      tJ,{)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      t?.f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,1./)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CJ.0 ,:),/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                tJ./} Al
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (},{)     O.t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                 ;. r 7,2 'I# .2.? /,2../ 3.7
        Tola!              /.JE       11-f 11.f' S.3                                                                           /, I 4.7 4tJ /'l .5-Y /.t 47 ..Z.3 ,i                                  // /f)          a.2      /J.,2 CUI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
! Enluabon
~~~noon
                           ·v,A     .Pr
                                   lt>mber
                                              /1/7 /.. /~=/u,< Y/A/&-r

                                                         Per Cent                  Number
                                                                                                 ;;~,,It/,,, /2RAV
                                                                                                         Percent                    Number                Percent                 Number                Percent
                           CtllJin Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfui Total ,:;ertain Doubtful Tolal Certain lloul>llul Total J;ertain Doubllul Total Certain Doubtful Total certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                               {/        I          I   tJ.C,      0./        t,f         I /J I                     tJ,/      (),{)~/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
: 1-Asllonomu;al
l2.A1rmft
    ·-·-
    l-LiahtPhenon1.
    4-Bnds
                             .2
                              I/
                              C
                               I       t:J
                                       I
                                       I
                                        I/
                                                i
                                                0
                                                 I


                                                 I
                                                        µI
                                                        N
                                                        J?.I,
                                                        tJ./J
                                                                   t?o !)./
                                                                    t?! t,2.
                                                                   v.O   t!O
                                                                   IP.I ~/
                                                                                         tJ I I
                                                                                         I t? I
                                                                                         0 I I
                                                                                         /,i     i?         0
                                                                                                                     !),t)
                                                                                                                     IP.I
                                                                                                                     t)./)
                                                                                                                     ,:?.{)
                                                                                                                               .a/ t?.I
                                                                                                                              tW t'./
                                                                                                                               /)./ J,/
                                                                                                                              tJ,O M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
-·
    S-Clouds. Oust, etc.
    6-lnsuffic.-.kl.


    .......
    7-Psydllloa,cal
                              C
                               v 0
                               C
                               I
                                       v
                                        j)
                                       /)
                                                C
                                                0
                                                I
                                                 t)     tJ./)
                                                        /J./}
                                                        /)_/)
                                                        tJ.I ao tu
                                                                   tJ.tJ tJ.t)
                                                                   ti,{)
                                                                   t}()
                                                                               tJ.{)
                                                                               ~/J
                                                                                         t?
                                                                                         tJ
                                                                                         /}
                                                                                        .2
                                                                                                 tJ 0
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                            t)
                                                                                                            tJ
                                                                                                            J
                                                                                                                     tJ{)
                                                                                                                     /).{)
                                                                                                                              O.{) O.t)
                                                                                                                              C.tJ tJ.tJ
                                                                                                                     tJ.tJ /'.!) ;J,~
                                                                                                                     J,/ l'J.I) /)./
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
-
    9-0lller


. · Tota
                             0

                             ,If
                                      u
                                      3
                                                0

                                                7
                                                        tJ.O. !).t:- J?.tJ

                                                        tU ,M ~.3 I/.
                                                                                        /)       0

                                                                                                 2
                                                                                                            L>

                                                                                                            6'
                                                                                                                     tJt t'.tJ /J.{)

                                                                                                                     t.2. /7./ ~,2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                             142                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
I
I
I                                                                          ,.,,u          ,;11s   #E-"'""' TEfl
                                                                                                                       .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4'.V



                                       ·-     I or. J                                      W8/r.F /JP       --•WN,'.T.<'.                                 MrY',         ,,,.                    /'/11/10       A//',.,.-   ('TATFP
                                                                Per Cent                         Number                Per Cent                Number                Per Cent                Number                Per Cent
    ! Evaluabon
I
                              Celt•• Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful I Totat              ertain Doubtful Tolal Certain Doubtful Total :;ertan Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tot~
    10.Balloon
                                                t:IJ /f:11- s-, / I f /IJ/ 1.S 2.0 lf,S- St, 2'1 111 .2.S J.3 .l'I 211
                              2.£:;; J:l.Z !3:;'9       1/11-                                                                                                                                         I£ JI.() /. I ~7 //l
        I-Asb0noll1cal        2711- ;us //~             as
                                                9..J 2✓.'I /£ ST /2il. 1,(/ J..6 s;t,      7 &' IS- "-3 '7,1/ tl. i II                                                                                  '1 ,:Z.tJ tJS titJ. /.9
    !2-Aucratt         :us     ;2.()f 4-7/J a.I rs .:iu JI/ JJLJ_ rs- /,9 ,t.P 3,5 'lS- .5".2 /3'} J. 9 2.11- t3 .2'{'                                                                                /6 /./" J.3 ~7 :M
                                                             ? 7 /tJ t.l t),3 M· 3 ,/J 7 N a2 ,u ()
    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ao
I                        3t? Ir )J 'l 1,1/- /). '{ 1..:Z.                                                                                                                                             t? t? cJ.O c),/)
    IH•aht Phenom.
     4-Birds             I~ It) .:Z:2 as t),5' /.~ Q              2. b r. ').. ti/ ().3   3   I  II- t)./ N ()..2 ti-                                                                                 I      .r J.2 tU t).J
    IS-Cloud~ Dus~ et~    J       7 /tJ ~.I ~3 tJ.11 I           3      II tJ,/ j/ 0.2. I t) I ~/ P.0 ()./ I                                                                                           tJ     I       tJ.I      /)~ ()./
     6-lnsuff1c. ~lo.   :w~. I) '7ll/) IM t).P /ti.9 £Ir ti 1/f 2..2 o.O ;2..z. 3tr t:1 '36' /. 7 ()./) /.7 £-2                                                                                        t? h           2.3       M ,7.f
                                                             1f :L I?! a11- (), J a, ? I          '1 tJ.11- (),/ M. ,5
I    7-Psydnloaical
     8-Unlulo•
     !1-0lhe<
                         .3.f'
                       f!J~
                                  f ./llJ. 1,6 tJ,/J 1./)
                                 CJ #J'lt /9,7 ao l'l7 //.)._ t) //2 5,/
                                                                                 ,,.
                                                                                CJ.O S:/ 76 0 7£ 3.S C/.0 3S p,2
                         o; ;z.11 /1)9 3.'l I.I /} It I 17 ~7 tJ ) O.'I /If II- 11 M, 0.2 tJ.S :Z.t
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ?)
                                                                                                                                                                                                       s- ?/
                                                                                                                                                                                                             b2
                                                                                                                                                                                                               ~      t?.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .2,8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.P tJ,3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /J.() :Z.f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      J,,Z t'-Z /, ti



I           Total             ~F5~ ~I/I ,7./?f V./ J.7,9 /Ot!, 3SJ' lt.l- 5"17 IU                                            7,/1 l-J.f lZV             fr 3'19 ll.2 1/,S- Ii? 12.UI 1-17 .J-?/ lt!,2                           JI 12,3




I   I
             Evaluation
                              l(!,04,,rr An/•
                                       Number
                                                                      /1_..,.

                                                                 Per Cent             Number
                                                                                             ~/7


                              Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfull Toi.al Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                       ~n /.,     N',/,VL!

                                                                                                                        Per Cent
                                                                                                                                l?ro          11:'or.c-•,
                                                                                                                                                 Nuntler
                                                                                                                                                              Ao    //""''/Nt: /.'.oEF,,l I/ IL!J.JT /4.//JJU /'✓,1111;, .#PT/61Aw,
                                                                                                                                                                       Per Cent               Number
                                                                                                                 Certain Doublfol Toi.al ~ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tout Certain Ooubtfu
                                                                                                                                                                                                               /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Toi.al Certain Doubtful T~
        0.Ballooo               IS'     /t)
                                                ~, t.7 as
                                                .2-.>/,2 13    9' .22 /.6 C:11 1.0 .J       ti 3 t?./                                                                          tJ./) 0./ /JI g ;z.2                    ,M tU /.0

I       1-Astnioomical
      2-Aircraft
      3-LictitPhenom.
                                3C 25'          /,/ 2s 35 /6 S-4- /,7 a 1 ,2, l/ L/3 s-s ?5' J.,0
                                                        /, If
                          ;.:- 22 1/C ai /,0 /.'I 2.2 14- 3'£ /,/) M /,6 ?
                          /()      C /t [.f /)() tJ.S I
                                                                                             7 /,It (j,J
                                                             2 3 tJ./ (!,/ o.:z. .:z_ ti '7 ;J. I
                                                                                                                                                                               2,5 PS 7,;- 9 34-
                                                                                                                                                                               0.3 tJ.6 I? ,22. 1./.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                atJ tJ./ II- 2 ,5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /. I ,?, I/ IS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (), 'j'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       tJ,2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 J,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 t?/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         l,f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /J.J
    1
     4-Birds                I      I   ::z_ [./ C./ tl.Z. 0  t?        C/11 t;?,{) ,al) ti  /? 0 00         v                                                                   M tf.tJ cJ I        I                 ().()     tJ,/     OJ
I    S-Cloucls, Dus~ et~
     6-lnsuffic. Info.
      7-Ps,dlolosical
                           t' I t'.' ! o ,M ft; 0~ tJ I
                          /7i CI 17 C.f ~/) t1. 'I I Jr
                          If ' 3 ' 7 c;.2 tJ./ tJ.3       j' ,tJ 3
                                                                   I

                                                                      0
                                                                       M ,:7./ ()./ 0 t) /) ;},O
                                                                  /'l NI t>,IJ (J'l
                                                                            ~() ()./
                                                                                        t cJ 9 C',1/
                                                                                        0  tJ
                                                                                                   v
                                                                                                 0 tJ./)
                                                                                                                                                                               tJ.p t',J tJ I
                                                                                                                                                                               aP /j.11. 21 tJ .2/
                                                                                                                                                                                tJ.tJ /21) t? I
                                                                                                                                                                                                   I

                                                                                                                                                                                                  I tU,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /}./)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /./)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 11,/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,?,ll 1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                tJ,/ t)./
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         t)./



    la.unkno•            LPI ,1/ 1/-'l ,z,;;z tJ.tJ ;z.2 33  ,:; 33 /,S' tJ./) /.S Ill- t7 /4- t?-6                                                                            tP.tJ ~6 21 tJ 7/ /,/J                            tJ.()   u
I    !I-Other


            Tot~
                           'I 7 16 t'-11 0.3 0.7 7 :i- 9' ~"I O.I dll 1 I p. tJ,/
                              /~?
                                                                             i
                                       .t<o ')..;1.) 7,j 3,/ !//)./ 135' JJ.t/ 17? 6, I                                      ;).,/)
                                                                                                                                                                               t1. I ().:Z. S' tJ s- tJ.;l.
                                                                                                                                       8', I f?/ 13 /UIJ. 3,7 )., 1 {,5 /(Jf /Ill IY2.. tM 2,1) 1.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /J.() 0.2




I   I                         i'&IIAIA/   ,-,of,>, llllA/J' ½ei,1,wu                       l?n,r- ;,,r;, ,{.'     ,..,,,.A &t1F                ;:?,~,,,... c,p/..' AU//,H,. ,/?', Aft~ / 1/'uT ,(~ .,., T:
                                                                                                                                                                                   Number.,.,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         "
                                      Number                Percent                   Nuoi>er                                                               Per Cent                                     Per Cent
    l                                                                                                       Percent                  Nud>er


I            Evaluation
        0.Balloon
        l•Astronomical
                              Certain Doubtful Total Certain lloubtfuI Toi.al Certain Doubtful Total c.rtaio Doubtful Toi.al Certain Doubtful Toi.al Certaio Doubtful Total Certin Ooubtfu Toi.al Certain Doubtful Total
                               /,5
                                2LJ
                                          'l   ;21/-
                                        Ill- 3? ),/
                                                        t?.7    /)I/-
                                                                   at, /,7 .:Z.t
                                                                                 ;.I
                                                                                  3                   I I/- a/ I)/ ;?.2 5
                                                                                                    It? 38' /, 3 tJ,S- l,f
                                                                                                                                              12 ().2 d3 l)S'
                                                                                                                                              120 t?./
                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                         7
                                                                                                                                                       fJ 0 tJ
                                                                                                                                                         iJ     I     41
                                                                                                                                                                                     tJ          I             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0, I) t),/    N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       //./)    tJ./)    ~tJ
    Ii-Aircraft                .2;:L    N       j'{;    /.0         at /,6 'D                         r 17 tJ.tl {).// M 1.2 ? 19 tU t?.3 NI .2.. I 3                                                                  tJ,/     o. I t?-2
I   S:Uahtl'h"'°".
    !4-Birds
     S-Clouds. Oust. etc.
                                 s-- I
                                 CJ
                                tJ
                                         2
                                          I
                                                 6 t:1,2.
                                                 .z_ 0,0
                                                 I      M tJ./ (),I
                                                                    ;J./
                                                                    tJ.J tJ./
                                                                                 i:B         I
                                                                                            ()
                                                                                             0
                                                                                                     Cl   I N O,t tJ./ t? t:) t? ao tJ,() t?t) I I 7
                                                                                                    0 0 t?.0 r).0 tJJ 0 I
                                                                                                     () 0 M M /J.D I/ I           I
                                                                                                                                   I 110 tJ,/ 0./ fJ 0 0
                                                                                                                                       /J,0 ~/ tJ,/ {? CJ 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /1./ ,:::,,/ ().2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ao {).() tJ.C.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       t2t?     4" ao
    1&-lnsuffic. _fo_          14         ,?    //1- ?).b            tJ.t /J.I,             3        0 3    a; tJ() t}./ /{) C It) t?S [//) ,1-f 0 0 0                                                                 tJ.I)    0 I) tJ.0

I   [7-Psytholoaical
        S.Unkno•
    CJ.Other
                                .2 t?
                               11
                                3
                                         ~
                                        ;z..
                                                 7
                                                3/ J,IJ.
                                                 ~
                                                         tJ./

                                                        tu
                                                                    tJ.L 6,/

                                                                    CJ.I /).2
                                                                                I
                                                                    ().b /,ti ;26
                                                                                            J       0
                                                                                                      I 2.. M tJ./ /J.2 3 I
                                                                                                     t) ?L /.::Z. tJ.() /.2
                                                                                                        J
                                                                                                                            7 0
                                                                                                                                  1/--       tU cu.. 0 tJ 0
                                                                                                                                   7 j.3 tJ.() /.3     I () I
                                                                                                            tJ,/ JJ.a (}.f /,) 2. ,2.. /?,/J t?,/ j./ 0 0 t)
                                                                                                                                                                       a;                                              l,tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      j,/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         tJ.p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         tJO ,1,/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      tU 0.() atJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ao


I           Tot~              l/7 //2. 15-Y _,.3                  /, 'I 7..2               7,      ,Z/      93 3,3            /,/)     .t/;:2 3~       l'l s-;, /,7 tJ.9 2.t F                        2_
                                                                                                                                                                                                              7       tJ.;L ,1./ t?.3




I   ! Evaluation
    !o.eanoon
    I-
                                  tJ
                                       -
                               V,,, ,,..,- ~,., I · / A,u,v/< JI,,,, eT
                                                            Percent
                              c.rtaio Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                          tJ    ,;)      al)        ao (J.C,
                                                                                                   / , //}W

                                                                                                  Noaber
                                                                                                                 V/'       f.;',:,Ay

                                                                                                                        Per Cent
                                                                                           ertain Ooublhrl Total Certain DoubHul Toi.al

                                                                                              I 0           I      t?.I        {)0 /2/
                                                                                                                                                      Number                Per Cent                Number                 PerCenl
                                                                                                                                              Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Toi.al Certain Oou!Jlfol Toi~




I   :1-Astrol'IOlllit.al
    l2-A11c1"1
        H,at,tPllenoa.
                                  I
                                  I
                                  ?
                                          C
                                          I
                                          v
                                                2
                                                0
                                                 I       41
                                                        o./ t)j
                                                        ~o
                                                                    /)/1



                                                                    {i./) ~
                                                                                  "-I
                                                                                  (}.).
                                                                                             tJ I
                                                                                             I
                                                                                            tJ
                                                                                                    CJ
                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                            p
                                                                                                                   ao M t?J
                                                                                                                   1,/
                                                                                                                   M
                                                                                                                               l).O (J./
                                                                                                                               tJ,/   t}./
    4-Birds                      ?        I      I      tJ,/)       ~I M                     tJ     ,t::J          ;?.()        ().() t).{)
                                                                                                                               ao U,
I       ~Clouds, Dust, etc.
        r..1nsuflic. Info.
        7-Psydlolo&icat
                                 r
                                  C
                               . I'     0
                                         t1
                                        /J
                                                0
                                                C,
                                                0
                                                        (),0
                                                        (2()
                                                        M
                                                                    t1./)
                                                                   {)()  ~p
                                                                   0.1)1 tJ.0
                                                                                 a~         t7
                                                                                            t>
                                                                                            tJ
                                                                                                   tJ
                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                            CJ
                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                  (),O
                                                                                                                  tJ,0 tJtJ 1/.l)
                                                                                                                  j.j IJ.() /J.t
     a.-                          I     C        I      t'- I      0,() ti.I                 I      tJ      I      ,N          /2()    I).

I   !1-0lhe<


           T~                   3
                                 C,     ti

                                        ;2.. 5"
                                                (/      tU)

                                                        tJ,/
                                                                   t?.P
                                                                    ,::J./
                                                                                  ().L

                                                                                 /J.2 3
                                                                                             0      0
                                                                                                   ..:L
                                                                                                            0

                                                                                                            .5
                                                                                                                   1-1; tJ.C, ().(}

                                                                                                                  I.I tU t'..l.

I                                                                                                                          143


I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                tlt,6                                                                                                                                                       I/LL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                         Ut(LE                                           E/(AL.@T/t?ttl                        ff    /JU.  5/6f/UII¼ S:                                                   FOR
                                                                         NI/AA, p~              "7F          t76"JEers /?££ S/'6 U-r'llf/G                                                 t?/1/&                  /?""J&t!-r
                                        ,./£.L          t/£~1>('                                            /91/-7                                                     /9 -.£g                                            /'7¥,-9
                                     ,.,_             PerCmt                                    _,  Pa Cent                 Nu-                     Percent                                       Pereent           _,
         Enluabon        Cerhin Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total ~ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total certain Doulltful Toi.al Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doabtful Total Certain lloublllll Tolal
    IHl•lloon
11-Astrommu:al
ii-Aircralt
                    2<8 l'f7 37S 'f.S ,.1 IS:C.
                    'f-3{, 31/ 7'1-7 /II./ 12.9 3/.0
                    227 /97 '{.z<f. f.'f r.z 17'-
                                                                                       S"
                                                                                      29
                                                                                           ()
                                                                                                 0     s 7.0 o.o 7.0
                                                                                                 .:;. 35 '-'o.~ 'i'.tf 'f-f.2
                                                                                                 z ;( o.o z.8 zg
                                                                                                                                                IS" I 'f
                                                                                                                                                3¢
                                                                                                                                                 't
                                                                                                                                                              31{- 9.0 //. <f 2"-~ /'{-  s I? ½3 1-S S.11
                                                                                                                                                          3tf '-li Z"-3 zo.3 U.{, ~ti /Z'iJ i'?z /9.7 i!'VIC S1./
                                                                                                                                                            s /t/. s.f 3.(J r.f/. Zit   IZ ¥0 U, 3.7 /,c'.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                    "·~                                z .es (J. {) -c'.8                                                                   a,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
 3-Lipt Phenom.       /9    II  3o 0.8           /.3                                      2      0                                                I         I           2.        o.,                /.Z              0       0    o.o      CI.O    ao
 4•811ds                I    I    z        o./ "-2
                                                         "·'                                     0          0    o.o o.o I
                                                                                                                  o.o                                       I           2.
                                                                                                                                                                                 "·'- "·" I.Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                               "      0       0    (1.0     o.o o.o
 I-Cloud>, Dus~ el~     '1 ,z :l/ O.tf O.S" o.'f
                                                                                          0
                                                                                           ()    0          0.0 ao o.o
                                                                                                            0               0                              0            0        tJ.O 4.0 o.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                               "
                                                                                                                                                                                                               0      0       0    a.o      ,,_o    c,.()
 6-lnsuffit. -.tt.  z,s 0 <I~ ff.? o.o f.?                                                s-     0       s 7.0 o.o 7.0 1,                                  0           1,        P.'- o.o ?-6                 22.     0     :.?2   ,.11     a.o     (,.f
                                                                                       z
7-PsidlJlo&ical                                        /.<f 0.0 /.<f                                     2. Z,8 o.o e.g
                                                                                                                  ,,_,,                                                 0                           o.o        I      0      I 0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                          .J'I          ()       31/-                                             0                         (!J                            0                     0.0       0.0                                              t:l.o 0-3
1-.-.                    t,-{,3         0       tU.3 /'I.:?. ao /9.Z                  /2         0      IZ       o.o 1'-.9 <3                              0           23        17.8       ao /~R            'fO     0     ~o 12.3         o.o li:.3
!1-0tlllr                               0        'l'j '1-.I      'f.i                     11             8 //.3' CI.O 1/.3 8                               0            8        il;Sl 0.0 ¥.ll                                    :v
                           'l'I
                                                                    "·"                          0                                                                                                            /0      t)    /0              ,:J.O   3.1

        Total            /73/ '7'f Z:Wo 7t.K                      z,.Z i(oo.          '3         & 71 1f8.7 //. 3 /tJO /07                               (;,t) 1,1              ''le( 3~9 /ti(). 1'1'1 l<I-S 3Zfl. .S-F.l #.? /CO.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
         Evah1ation
    0-11111000             "30
                                     Nu111ber


                                         7
                                                /9~0
                                                                  Pet Cent

                                                  37 1/.8 <'-8 #-'-                    /0
                                                                                                -       /9SI
                                                                                                     PerCml
                         Cerbin Ooobtful Total Certain Doubtful Toi.al Certain Doubtful Total Certain lloabtlul Total
                                                                                                 <I- /<I Vf· -;z.'f /0.3 IS'/- /12
                                                                                                                                                         r.inmer
                                                                                                                                                                       l'?.S.i?


                                                                                                                                                                       ,.,,,
                                                                                                                                                ertain Doabtful Toi.al Certain
                                                                                                                                         /o.6 7.7 18!..                                    -
                                                                                                                                                                                          PerC..I                  Number               PerCml
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Total Certain Dovbtfu Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                         .,_,
    l·ASWIDlital           'It.        ZS"       7/ /f./      .?7.'1 .23                        ltf- 37 /,., /(). 3 212         /Ou. _?@ /i. ..f 7. I Z3.6
    2·Aircrifl             z:z....     /3        35' U, S:I l,J.7 ,s-
                                                                                                                                               """"
                                                                                                  7 2< /(.0 S"-1 IC../ IS.l 1= 31/ m.S 1().9 Zf.J
    3-Li&III Ph"""'-        0              0       t)    0.0        ao         tl.O    c         I           3     /,S°       0.1     2'..c      /¥,        't         Z.~        U)        fJ.fo     /.to
    4-Birds                 0            0         0     ao ().0              04       0         0           0     oo 0.0             o.o         0        0   0                 o.o        o.o o.o
    I-Cloud~ Dus~ el~
    6-lnsuHic. Info.
    l•P,ycholo&ical
                          wt
                            t)


                             fC
                                        0
                                        0
                                         t)
                                                 =
                                                   0

                                                   ~
                                                         tlO
                                                         173
                                                                   0.0
                                                               o.o /7,3 /()
                                                          /.Co o.o /.lo   z
                                                 . n ......, o.cJ ZtJ.g 'fa
                                                                              t,.O     0         0
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                            /0
                                                                                                            z
                                                                                                                   clO
                                                                                                                   7.~
                                                                                                                   )!'
                                                                                                                       0.0
                                                                                                                              ().0
                                                                                                                              ao
                                                                                                                                      t).0

                                                                                                                                      7.'f /(8
                                                                                                                                      /-~       2•
                                                                                                                                                  9       IZ ,Z/
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           e,
                                                                                                                                                                   118
                                                                                                                                                                    'l.S"' 1-7
                                                                                                                                                                                 ,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                 "·"        tJ-'i
                                                                                                                                                                                            C,.O
                                                                                                                                                                                            Cl!O
                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.<t
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Fl. I
                                                                                                                                                                                                     /.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
    I-U,,knoMI            5'3           t)                                                       ID     IL'< s/.b
                                                                                                                              "-~ n   3/.fo Zf'C          0        Z'fc. ;l.0.0 cJ.O :J.01)
!I-OIiier


I      Tolal
                          /0


                         20¥
                                        t)       /0      3.1 0.0

                                      'f-., 2~'1 'l.?.3 17- 7
                                                                              3.'f

                                                                             /0().
                                                                                          ~      0          s     3.7

                                                                                      1/0 ,Z{, ;;,b go_'f l'l.l IOC.
                                                                                                                             c:lO               SI        d         s-B ~.t. "-o C/./1


                                                                                                                                               '"'' ;,p~ 19'.n 7.Z.9 i7./                           /OtJ.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                         -fdtft.E                                            .EJl'AL t/tln(J,v
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                -
                                                                                ME                   t7,C         t<IJ,,e,,-,rf                  7£-t'          /({,     rl/116                     rwt?             cl. ..lt::t!:rs
                                             /Ju        i/1:AR5                                             1'1<17                                                       /"~rf'                                              /'1'"1L9
                                 Number                Per Cent                                       PerCotl                                         -er                   PerC..t                 Number               PerC..t
         Evah.ation
    0-B,lloon
    1-Astrunomical
    2-Aircraft
                         Certlin Doubtful Toti! Certain Doabllll Total Certain Doabtful Toi.al Certain Ooobllul Total
                          :i?Z.     '1-3 ,.o 7-" IS'.fo
                                       <I
                            ,z /3 i!S '1-.f/. 'f,7 1./
                           S3 '13 96 19.3 IS.'- 3'l-'1'
                                                                                       i:.
                                                                                        I
                                                                                          0      0
                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                            0      tJ.0


                                                                                                             I !/./ o.o If.I
                                                                                                                              c). 0

                                                                                                            '{- Zc'.i. z2.z W#'
                                                                                                                                      t:'-0
                                                                                                                                               ertain Doabtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Ooubtfu Total Certain Doabtful Total


                                                                                                                                                 2
                                                                                                                                                  I

                                                                                                                                                  3
                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                             I          e
                                                                                                                                                                        3
                                                                                                                                                                        ~
                                                                                                                                                                                 ,.7 ,.7 I.Y.<1.
                                                                                                                                                                                /3.j'"-7 zo.o
                                                                                                                                                                                 zo.c 0.0 ZtJ.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,c
                                                                                                                                                                                                               G
                                                                                                                                                                                                               e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      If-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     <.f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             lo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /&,.C,   cJ.O /i!>.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   30.0 :zo.o so.c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /0.0 zo.o 30.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
    l-Li&IIIPh111011.
    4-Birds
    I-Cloud~ Dusi, et~
                             '(..
                             0
                                  z G I-~ 0.1 Z.I
                                  0   0 ao [).0 ,!).0
                             z I 3 0.7 O.'{- I.I                                       0
                                                                                        0
                                                                                        0        0
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                  0         0

                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                 0-0 o.O t,.O
                                                                                                            0 o.o 0.0 o.e>
                                                                                                                  tJ.o        0.0 t}c)
                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                  I         0
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                         I        '-1
                                                                                                                                                                                 o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                 o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                     "·"
                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0


                                                                                                                                                                                            at!J
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                    O.{)
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ClO
                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (7.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            o.()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            t).0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    o.o o.o ao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    d.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0-0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                  0 /9 .,.r 0.0                                                                   c,.o                                                                                                             o.o              ao
    6-lnsuffic. mto.      /9
                                                                              '·"'     0         0          0                 ae, 0.0             0         0           tJ       If/.{)     6).0    {).O       0      0      0              o.O
    l•P,ycholo&ical
    1-IJnknoMI
'I-OIiier
                            'I-
                          t.<1-
                          (.S
                                  0  ~   /.<,C. tJ.O
                                  0 "It- 23__; o.o 7?.il
                                         C)      /~
                                                     I. 'I-


                                                         S.4        ao S.<I
                                                                                       0
                                                                                       2
                                                                                       z
                                                                                                 0


                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                            z 22.2
                                                                                                            2
                                                                                                                   C/.C)



                                                                                                                  .:z.c
                                                                                                                              0.0 o.o
                                                                                                                              o.i:i zr.z
                                                                                                                              O.C,    .:v,
                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                  z
                                                                                                                                                 ¥-        0
                                                                                                                                                            (Z)

                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                        z /3.3
                                                                                                                                                                        q.. 2,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                 o.o o.o            1'.0
                                                                                                                                                                                            "·o 13.3 z
                                                                                                                                                                                            ei.o Zfo.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                               0


                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   t:1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ao /().O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ao

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0 e:J.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                           ,..,,.,, /tJO. 12
        Toto!             /'IS        '80 Z7S 70.'? zf./ (OO.                           7       ;;>         9     17-'i! zzz. /00.             13          ;z      /.f,         111,.7                                ir    zo 60.0 ~o /()0.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
         Evaluation
    0-Bolloon
                         Cerhin Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tolal

                              I
                                     -  0
                                                /'TSO


                                                   I
                                                      Pa Cent

                                                         S.-3       o.o S.3            0
                                                                                                -           /7'SI
                                                                                                                           PerC..t                     Nulllber

                                                                                                                                                                       ~, n
                                                                                                                                                                                                              PerC..I
                                                                                      ertain Doubtful Tolal Certain Doubtful Total ---n Doabtful Tollll Certain Doubtflll Total Certain Doabtful Total Certain Ooobtful Total
                                                                                                 0          0     ,t>.()      0.0     OC)       /F       KO
                                                                                                                                                               Percent
                                                                                                                                                                        l'r~,c


                                                                                                                                                                                   'l-7 /Vf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -                                       I
    1-Astmnollical
    2-Airaalt
    J-Li&lltl'llfta.
    4-Birds
                            ()

                            G
                            0
                            0
                                        0
                                        I
                                        0
                                        0
                                                   0
                                                   7
                                                   0
                                                   0
                                                          ,:J.Q

                                                         .71.i:;. 5.3 31,.'?
                                                         0-0
                                                         o.o ao
                                                                    ao

                                                                    tJ.0
                                                                              00

                                                                              o.o
                                                                              ().0
                                                                                       0
                                                                                       ()
                                                                                       0
                                                                                       0
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                 "
                                                                                                 0

                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                            t')

                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                  (7.0
                                                                                                                  cl{)
                                                                                                                  0.0
                                                                                                                  o.C
                                                                                                                              tJ.O
                                                                                                                             ao
                                                                                                                              ().0 0,0
                                                                                                                              0.0 oe>
                                                                                                                                      0.0
                                                                                                                                      i!>.{)
                                                                                                                                                 z
                                                                                                                                               'I-I
                                                                                                                                                 3
                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                         ~,f

                                                                                                                                                           z
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                            '
                                                                                                                                                                        g ;.o .e.'I 3'.'J
                                                                                                                                                                       7"1' /r.8 /f.'I 38.2
                                                                                                                                                                        s 1-<f /.0 z-.'1-
                                                                                                                                                                        0    tl.0 tf/.0 ao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
    I-Cloud>, Dus~~
    6-lnslffic.lltfo.
                            0
                            I
                                        0
                                        0
                                                   0
                                                   I
                                                         0.0
                                                         -s:3
                                                         o.c o.o
                                                                    ,J.O
                                                                    &};:J
                                                                              "·"
                                                                              .S:3
                                                                                       0
                                                                                       0
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                  ao 0.() e,.0 ;;::
                                                                                                                  o.o ao ao /'j                            0
                                                                                                                                                            I           3 /.0 o..r /.S
                                                                                                                                                                       18        11.1       CJ.0
                                                                                                                                                                                            ao t.'f
                                                                                                                                                                                                     8.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
-                                                                                                                                                "'
    7-PsydlDlo&ical         0           0          0                          o.o      0         ()         0     o.o ~ 0.0                                0            ~        /. 'f
1--                         9           0          '? Jt7.'I tJ.O 'R.<I-               (£..      0          ¥- 80.0           ao 80.0 q;._,;-              0           l'..s Z/.7           O.C, Zt.7
                                                                                                 ,.,
       Total             I'!
                            I

                                       I
                                        0           I S:3 ClO S:3

                                                 l'i' l9s'?         S:3 IP0.          s
                                                                                       /

                                                                                                0
                                                                                                            I

                                                                                                        ,S I/PO.•
                                                                                                                  a:).()      O.() zo.o          7         0

                                                                                                                             ao 1100. l'10 ,7 Zo7 l-'7.'- 3:2.tf /DO.
                                                                                                                                                                            7    3. 'f     Cl.I!)    3.4-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                        144

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
I
I
                                                                                                                       tY            i9U         s tG ¢' r(A(6 s                                                                               6'y
I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     9'.Et9RS
                                                                               A///M,-,e,,,               (17,C        /Jd/c~rs                  P=,e      S"/611/T/Au:::                        -ru,t'£E      -r/J     7'6'/V            ;'];Jeers
                                                  ALL   YE,1,e.5                                               /9<,C.7                                                /9<,C9             '                              19SC?
                                           lllmbef            Per Cent                              Number                      Per Cent                   Numbef                    Per Ceo!         Number                Pereeot
              EWlluation        Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tolal             ertain Doubtful Total        Cl!llain Doubtful Toi~    ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total



I    ~8'11oon
     1l-Astiuno111ical
     /2-Aucraft
                                 I~

                                (,7
                                   7
                                            /0
                                            IZ
                                                        :?~ .ft 11 1v
                                                         19 2.P S.+' ~¢
                                            31? IOS I/Lt ;P.t. tf.1/
                                                                                           I
                                                                                           0
                                                                                           I          0
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                   I   ✓.tJ lltJ .d,-,
                                                                                                                   {) /J.tJ cUJ //1'1
                                                                                                                   I 417 t:J.tJ 4(/}
                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                   3'
                                                                                                                                                             ;e
                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                              t:)      I L.7 /J.P
                                                                                                                                                                       z ,!/lfl 1:J,f ,:1..1
                                                                                                                                                                       3 1'14P t.J.p 21-P
                                                                                                                                                                                                  /_,,    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                          ;e
                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         c:::>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /7/J 4'/.tJ /J.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '7.'1' atJ '/.7'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /0 .U ;¢7 J~5
     3-Litfll Phenom.              'f-      ,o I~ /I .fl f. 9                              0          c::,        0 /J.tJ /J.P ,?/_}                0         ¢        ~   AA ~L. 7' l~,;.7                0    0        0 O.tJ 11.tJ /1.P

I    4-Bnds
     S-Clouds, Oust. etc.
     6-lnsuflic. ~fo.
                                  '
                                  0
                                 V-2
                                             g 14 17 1.2 .Lf.
                                             0      0 /)/) /J.~ /1,0
                                             CJ '{---Z // I /J.t? Iii'
                                                                                           0
                                                                                           0
                                                                                           7
                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                  0 /J/J IJ. I) tJ.tJ
                                                                                                                  0 t'_O 17.t? ,J.tl
                                                                                                                  7 ,ff.I) /JP NP
                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                    I

                                                                                                                                                   /!)
                                                                                                                                                             ,e
                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                       3 I/.. 7' /;,S :!tUl
                                                                                                                                                                       0 t?.t? t?. () (l.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                       0 /1.t? t:J.tl i:lP
                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                          7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 t'tl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,?. ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           g.fj
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           atJ 11.P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '1L. 9 at? 1.2t..f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .u

     7-Psydlolojical               I         I/-         s JJj'          ;.I               0          I            I ,7_/, 4. /J ,/p               0         0         ~ tJ.tJ tJ.t? at?                  I     0        I       f. i      tJ.P

I
                                                                                  /.(/                                                                                                                                                              f.S
     1-Unlalo•                  108          0         /()8 JtJ.J tJ.O I''!~                r          ()         9 J'L /, ,1/J J't.P              z         0        ,2 lf.S t1. tJ /.f.;1               s    0        r        II.?.., tJ.p 19. i,
     9-0lller                    23          2          25' 1,t,_(/ /}(, 1.t?
                                                                                            "          0          C. 2tl/J ll.O 21/P               0         0        0     t:1.tl     ao lt:117          0    0         0        /J.17 iJ. tJ t?.17

                                                                                                               25" 1;.;::i                         7         I?

I
            Total               Z73         'iN- 3S7 !?'t 5 L:!.5 la:1                    -:i?'I-         I                       +ftJ I/el?.                         /5 1//..7 5:/.1 /pp.                /6   /0       Z6 lt.1.5" .fJ'5 /¢.




I
                                                       / '1.S-0                                                   /9S/                                                /9.S-2
                                           Number             Per Cent                Number                PerC01I                                        Nuntier                    Per Cent                 Nu•ber                     PerCmt
              Evaluation        Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total                       ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doub!lu Total Certain Dlllbtlul Total
      ~Balloon                     2          0  :2 '/.I /J.t:J ?'I 0                                 0           0      ll.v       /)(} tJ.() I/           /0        ZI ✓.4' ✓.t:) S.tl
                                   ()                                                                  '3         s- l~:Z .!1.J' 14'<.5                          7

I
         I-Astronomical                       0  0 11.t? IJ;; /1() ;e                                                                              3                  /C)    /.-?      ~~         ,/..o
      2-A11cratt                  II          I IZ .!f..5 .?.~ t/?_f   I                               0          I     9./ /1.{) t/.1 50 zg 7Jr /9.8 I// 130,q
                                                                                 ao
     3-Lilf!lfltlenom.
     4-Birds
                                   0
                                   0
                                  c;
                                             CJ 0
                                             0
                                                     /Jt? /7,/}
                                                 t) ,117 //fJ 12tl
                                                                      0
                                                                      0                               0
                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                       0          0
                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                        t?.v at? tJ.tJ ~
                                                                                                                     t?.tl ,7_ t1 /Jtl s-                     "'
                                                                                                                                             /0 I. t. .f.4 ,t(,1
                                                                                                                                                             ..r /0 ?,/J          'l./1 U.t7



I                                                   tJ.tl ().CJ /Jf} 0
     Hlood~ Dus~ et~                         0 0                                                                  0  tl.t? t?.t? tJ.tJ 0                      C)       0    JJ.t? 11.cl t!l.tl
      6-lnsuffic.lnfo.            (?.        0  <I- 1,/_g /J./1 ,,(_g I                                0          I  f l 4tJ q_ I Z8                         0        Z3 9.1            (l.t7     fl
      7-Psycllolo11cal            0          0   0 Ll.() P-tJ ll.tJ 0                                  0          0 ,?.tJ atJ 121?       0                   3         3 tl.O L:Z /. .t
     8-Unkno•                     8          0   K 1ft, tJ_t} B.t 3                                   0           3 /J'I .1 t.?.tJ Li.7 8/                   0        'U lr2./ /ltJ H./

I    9-0ther


            Total               Zlo
                                       I      I < fl. 1,t, 'f.2 I
                                              z Z8 IQf.9 ?. I                    /~         If
                                                                                                      0

                                                                                                      '3
                                                                                                                   I  q/ /J. /)     9.1 IS"

                                                                                                                  I( -t.t.7 27.5 ltl:1.          /P2
                                                                                                                                                              I       16 ,;:9 /J.u' ~.f

                                                                                                                                                             l,O ZSi! lf.r(. .t IU.$ /a?.



I    I
                                                   ,llLt..    t/E/US
                                                              Pe,C,nt                 Number
                                                                                                                  /9'-1"7
                                                                                                             Per Cent                Numer                 PerCml
                                                                                                                                                                      r9 ;;,cf?
                                                                                                                                                                                    llamber
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /9'/'9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PerCml
                                           """""
                                Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doulllful Tolal Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain [lolmlful Total Certain Doulltlu                            Total Certain l)a,blful Total


I
     i        Evaluation
         ~Balloon                  I              I      ;z    /. I      f/       :t.2.      0         0           0    tJ.tJ tJ.CJ 17.6           D          0        0 /1/1 /1/1 (7.,t) 0                      0       0   11.tJ ~/_J /7.0
         I-Astronomical            7              'f     II    ~✓       E/2 I/./.           0          0           0    /?" 17./l (7.CJ            0          I         I Id.ti l..?.G:P £!;.I) 0                0       0   ti.CJ tUJ /11?
         2-Aircraft                3              G      'T S'- 2.. /,,J          9.5       0             ti       0 t7. ti 1.7.tl tJ.tJ            I         ()       I i!5P ,::lCJ 2~/J                  0     /       I   /1.tJ 5:t .<r.
                                                                                                                                                                                                           0    0       0 ,?.tJ .t.2tJ. av

I                                                                                                                                                                      0
         3-Li&hlPh....,,           3          0          3    f.2    /J.P $2                 0         0           0 /)./} tJ.tJ tJ.O              0          0              t?.t? /?/J Ci"
         4-Birds                   lo          I         7 t..5 /.I 'IQ                     0          0          0 4.,:; /J.tJ /1/J               0          0        0      /J.p /JP /217                ~    0       'I- ~t.t IJ./1 ,;?,J
         S-Clouds. Dust, etc.      0          0          0 /J.t? IJ.tl tJ.t?                0         0           0   tJ.p tl.P 11t)               0          0        0      "?"' /ltJ 1217               0     0       0        t?/J .t.2cl 11.t?
         6-lnsutfic. ~to.         I/          0         II /~/. t:l.tJ //.r(                0         0           0 tJ.tJ tJ.p OtJ                  I         0        I    1-?t:.tJ /1 ✓1 25-o            s     0       .s ,,a Ll.tl 2:IA'
                                                                                                                                                              0                                                          I  5.1.. P-t:' s.t

I
     1   7-PSJCholofic.al          3          I          ,f. ~t,      I I «.l               I         I           2 111.~ 12.,:; 25-tJ              I                   I .25.P .4.() 25,0                 I    0
                                              a                                                                                                                        0 /J.t:J IJ.t} ~p                   ~    0        G ff.1 a t1 n.1
      &-Unknowi
     9-0ther
                                 '1-<
                                   s          I
                                                       'l-2 /;'t./.2 tl/J ,l,f.2,
                                                         6 5.J' /./ t.4
                                                                                             S'
                                                                                             I
                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                  5 ~.!.5 tJ.t) ~2.5
                                                                                                                   I    1?.!, /1,tJ 12.!,
                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                    0         "
                                                                                                                                                              0        C) IJ.t}        t7.t7 aP            I    0        I       5.t.       17.t?   ,;_,:



I            Tcdal              81          /ij.        '1S JJ,;. q 1✓ 7 ltV                7         I           R' lk'7'5 1:t.i /t?P. 3                     I        'I- l?".-.t? fl!i.P /a:!           /7     I      18' f~,/ 5.t. /,AA




I             Evaluabon
         ()..Balloon              0
                                           lllmbef


                                              0
                                                        /';?S-0


                                                        0
                                                         I
                                                                      Per Cent


                                                                         ().0
                                                              50.0 o.O so.o
                                                                                                                  /'7S-/

                                Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tolal Certain Doubtful Total
                                                               o.o      o.o                 0
                                                                                                    - 0           0
                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                        ao
                                                                                                                                Percent


                                                                                                                                    t?.u tJ.;;
                                                                                                                                                 i;ertain Doulllful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Cerlaio Doullllul Total
                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                          Nu-



                                                                                                                                                                 3
                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                      /?.J°<.


                                                                                                                                                                       z
                                                                                                                                                                                 Per Ceo!


                                                                                                                                                                              /.""f
                                                                                                                                                                       9 //J. .1
                                                                                                                                                                                         /. 7 . u
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Number                Per Cent




                                  /           0                                              0        0
                                                                                                                                                    '"' s                                        155

I
     !I-Astronomical                                                                                                    d.O    IJ. tJ /7.tJ                                              !,.2,
         2-Aircrifl                0          0         0      o.o o.c. o.o                 0         0           0     tl. tJ tJ.tJ I.J.t?        2                   7 _g_~            ~t. /2.C.
         l-L1et,I Phenom.          0          0         0      o.c. 0.0 p.l)                 0        0           0     tl.t:) (J.t) t).t7 3                  0        3     5'.2  tJ.P 5.1,
      4-Birds                     0           0          0     C),0      o.o      ()_/)     0          I          J      ,7./J ,?/} /_J M.tJ 2.               0        2     tu' 41? f.-"
                                                                                                                  0       IJ.17 17.tJ p,CJ

I
         S-Clouds. Oust, etc.     0          0          0      0.0      QC:,     t:,.O       0         0                                     0                l)       0     /JJ1 ttt:J 17.o
         6-lnsutfic. flto.        a          0          0      tJ.tJ o.o          ().0         /        0          I ~p t:l.tJ tt:J.P 'I-                     0        <I- I. 9         tJ.,!l   -'.P
         7-Psydlolo&ical          0          0          0      o.o o.o tJ.0                  0         0          c:::> l?.b tJ.tJ ,?.tJ 0                    0    0 t.?.t? t1.t? 62tJ
         1-Unuio..                 I         0          I     s-11.0 o. 0 .S-/J.t)          z          0          z 1dl.; t?.P //1.J.v ~8                        02'ii' k/,:.J /J.tJ 1~1
                                   0                            0. C, ao o.o                                       I I4/.>,c ao 12'ao ;z                         I 3 f.,/ /.7 5'.I

I
         >-0....                              0         0                                      I          0

             Total               z           0          2     /000       ,:JO ,..a,        'I-        I           0 lit?.tl 1£).p la?.            <,..>(     /0       sa ln.s ln..z ltl:1.

II
                                                                                                                             145

I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                   ~v~':4~l?~L=E~~d,-~,;J~--~E~//,~t9-t~e~t1~7i~,~e~'&'.~--?2~V-C--_~d~L=t~-~S/GH'.1/&G (


                                 Number              Per Cent
                                                             /Jll',,,,dc.e      ,.,~

                                                                              Number
                                                                                           t?/fJ§e;rs
                                                                                                /~Y:7
                                                                                                               /'ff/?

                                                                                                            Per Cent
                                                                                                                         S/GN7'.""G

                                                                                                                                     Number
                                                                                                                                                  tf/t/t'16't:R
                                                                                                                                                /'T'f? l?
                                                                                                                                                         EC£'


                                                                                                                                                           Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                          dU..
                                                                                                                                                                       t?,C
                                                                                                                                                                                      't"Edi!' [
                                                                                                                                                                              ?'6'J£t!;rS"

                                                                                                                                                                                   Number
                                                                                                                                                                                               /1,t?T
                                                                                                                                                                                              /'rV'7'
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
      Evaluation       Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total t:e,tain Doubtful         Total Certain Doubtful Total r;ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
0-Balloon                ¥            I    5""      (.'3      /.6      7, '?    I          0     I    zs.o o.o 25.CJ            0          C)   0        o.o     o.o ao           0    0      (.)     cJ.O       o.o cJ.O
I-Astronomical          /~            I   I • Z/.[I           /.(. 2:1.'(,      I          0     I    2s.£ a tJ 2S.I.            a         I     I      tJ.O :z!i.O 25.C          z    0      z.      2t(,       0.0 lz8.,
2-Aircraft               fl        ¥-          l? t:,.3       i:;,3 I~.(;      0           0    0      o.o 0.t) o.o             C)     0         0       o.o     0, 0     o.c     0    0      ~       o.O        0.0      C).O
3-Light Phenom.
Hircls
5-Clouds, Oust. etc.
6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
                         z
                         6
                         f
                        fl
                                   0
                                   0
                                    I



                                   C)
                                           6

                                          fl
                                            I
                                               3    3./
                                                    o,u.
                                                    1,6
                                                   l?.2
                                                              M,
                                                             o.o
                                                             0.0
                                                                       q,7
                                                                       9.<,<
                                                                       f.(,
                                                              o.o /'/.2 z
                                                                                0
                                                                                0
                                                                                0      tJ
                                                                                       0
                                                                                           0
                                                                                           0
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                2
                                                                                                      o.o
                                                                                                      t).O

                                                                                                      o.o
                                                                                                     $0,0
                                                                                                                C>. 0
                                                                                                                 0.0
                                                                                                                0.0  o.o
                                                                                                                0.0 so.o
                                                                                                                         0,0
                                                                                                                        O.o
                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                               ,;z_
                                                                                                                                       a
                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                        /

                                                                                                                                       C)
                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                z
                                                                                                                                                    f    ,:,,0
                                                                                                                                                        ci.O
                                                                                                                                                             :zs.c 25',0
                                                                                                                                                               o.o o.o
                                                                                                                                                        cJ.O o.o ao
                                                                                                                                                        50.0     tJ.o SO.<
                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                  z
                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                          0   0
                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                               Ci
                                                                                                                                                                                                      o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                      o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                      o.~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  o.o o.C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  o.o o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0,0
                                                                                                                                                                                              z ;;:: 8'.C, o.o 2lU,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
7-Psydlolo~cal
IHJnknown
!I-Diller
                         I
                        /2
                         e
                                   0
                                   tJ
                                   0       z
                                               I
                                              /.C,
                                          12 /8,7
                                                    :?./
                                                              o.o /,{, 0
                                                              c,,o /R.7
                                                              o.o $.f          0
                                                                                0
                                                                                       0
                                                                                       0
                                                                                       0
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                      o.o
                                                                                                      0,()

                                                                                                      Oo
                                                                                                                0.0
                                                                                                                o.D ,Q.0
                                                                                                                C,,()
                                                                                                                        o.o

                                                                                                                        o.o
                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                               C)
                                                                                                                               C)
                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                       t:)
                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                         0,0
                                                                                                                                                         a>.o O.o
                                                                                                                                                        o.o
                                                                                                                                                                 ao

                                                                                                                                                                 "-D
                                                                                                                                                                          0,0
                                                                                                                                                                          d.D • 3
                                                                                                                                                                          t),0
                                                                                                                                                                                  0

                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                              3
                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                      t:J.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ¢z.g
                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 o.c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 o.o 'R.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 cJ,O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                          O.l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
    Total              Sr             7   64- 88.'l I/./ /""·                  ',L     0        lf- /OO.C ao
                                                                                                                        "'"· z         z        t/, so.o so.o ftJQ,               7   0        7 /'1,.0          /J.O /00.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
      Evaluation
0-Balloon                   0
                               Number


                                      0
                                          /'T'SO



                                           0       o.o
                                                      Per Cent
                       Certain DOllbtful Tolal Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Dooblful Tot~ r.;ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Ooul.ltfu
                                                              C),0     IJ).O
                                                                              Number


                                                                                0          0
                                                                                                /'1.S/


                                                                                                0
                                                                                                    Per Cent

                                                                                                      0.0 0.0           o.o
                                                                                                                             Number

                                                                                                                                3           I
                                                                                                                                                /'TS<?
                                                                                                                                                   Per Cent

                                                                                                                                                (/..     7.0     2.3 'f.3
                                                                                                                                                                           Number
                                                                                                                                                                                              Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Pe, C151t
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Certain Doublful Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
I-Astronomical
2~Aircraft
3-Light Phenom.
                            0
                            0
                             z
                                   0
                                   0
                                    0      .2 M,.7 ao 61:,.1
                                           0
                                           0
                                               o.c 0.0 o.o
                                                     t).0

                                                    o.o ao
                                                              0.0      o.o
                                                                                0
                                                                                0
                                                                                C)
                                                                                           0
                                                                                           /
                                                                                           0
                                                                                                0


                                                                                                0
                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                      o.o
                                                                                                      o.o n.3 333
                                                                                                      0.0 e>.O 0.0
                                                                                                      o.O t!J.0
                                                                                                                c,,I)   ao       '1'
                                                                                                                                 ',<
                                                                                                                                ,e
                                                                                                                                           .s 7
                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                            0    9 zo.9

                                                                                                                                                z..
                                                                                                                                                         ?.3
                                                                                                                                                         1(.,7
                                                                                                                                                                  0.0 2'1,'f
                                                                                                                                                                 7.0 1,.3
                                                                                                                                                                 o.o 'f:7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
4--Birds                  0        0       0                           O.o      0          0    0
                                                                                                                         "·"    6        0       c; l'f..o       0.0     J</-,O
5-Clouds.Dust,etc.
6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
7-Psycoolo~cal
                         0
                         0
                          0
                                  0
                                  0
                                   0       0
                                           0
                                           CJ
                                           0
                                                    (!).0
                                                    0.0
                                                   0,()
                                                    o.o
                                                              C'.l.O
                                                              C).0

                                                              40
                                                                       (!).0
                                                                       ClO
                                                                       (!).O
                                                                                0
                                                                                ;e,
                                                                                0
                                                                                       0
                                                                                       0
                                                                                       0
                                                                                           0     0    ('.).0

                                                                                                2._ ~.7
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                0.0
                                                                                                                o.o ,6.1
                                                                                                      ao o.o t),0
                                                                                                      o.o 0.0 O.t)
                                                                                                                        0.0

                                                                                                                                '3
                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                 I

                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                         0

                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                 3
                                                                                                                                                  I      z.3
                                                                                                                                                         7.0
                                                                                                                                                                 o.o Z.3
                                                                                                                                                                 o.o
                                                                                                                                                         .e. 7 o.o z.3
                                                                                                                                                                          7.0                                                    I
8-Unknown                0        0                           (!),0    O.D      0               0                                9     0        9       20.'f    C'.O u,,'f
9-0ther


    Total               3
                         /        0

                                  0       3
                                           /       33.3

                                                   lt)().0
                                                              o.o 13.3

                                                              0.0 J,:)O,
                                                                               t)


                                                                               z
                                                                                       0

                                                                                       I
                                                                                               0

                                                                                               3
                                                                                                      t),0      ao ti.o

                                                                                                     66.7 3.3.3 /00. 3'1
                                                                                                                                 I      0

                                                                                                                                       ',(.
                                                                                                                                                 I       Z3      i!J.0


                                                                                                                                                'l-3 90.7 9.3 /""·
                                                                                                                                                                          ;e.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                               146
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
I
I
I                                                                                                         -                                                                                                                                    -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                tfV




I   u,u..
         E--


    l·-ical
                            0A
                                     - ,,
                                     /21
                                          jJ




                                                ?I.I
                                                         ''rJ,,,
                                                       PerC111l
                          Ceruin Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tolal Certain Doubtful Total Certain Domtful Tollll Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total """'in DoulJlful Toi~


                          -,.~ ?•2"1 l5"k't /Jf(/ /IC .1/l. 2. / 7
                           ,,,,,, /1,t} u;/) 9. 9 L.1 lf.2.
                                                                     ,f..
                                                                               N"'ber

                                                                            fl /t...?         !,
                                                                                                     Per Cent


                                                                                                                /7
                                                                                                                L
                                                                                                                     /9;/7
                                                                                                                             Number


                                                                                                                      .5 51:g tJ. tJ
                                                                                                                     2$ ff£ /()_,; fltJ..1
                                                                                                                                                   Percent

                                                                                                                                                   .ra ,,,_
                                                                                                                                                            ?-?
                                                                                                                                                                         /0
                                                                                                                                                                         ?1
                                                                                                                                                                           Number
                                                                                                                                                                                    /;~R


                                                                                                                                                                                     9.7
                                                                                                                                                                                   £.?,
                                                                                                                                                                                   ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                PerCIIII

                                                                                                                                                                                                 /7.g /,:7
                                                                                                                                                                                    2/Y t/f.f;, flM 21f
                                                                                                                                                                                      /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                        s. /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ?'J;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /t?✓7'



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             It),/ l5Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ;;.,/ /.G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.! ,;u,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7.,-J

    2-Ai~.                                                                                    0               2.       .:z. JJ.t1 ,',:;            .7.5'      9            ;/ /J , .5 J. 2. /a£ /5                                      ~     .v      fl.I   f{.1     /f.q"



I                                                                                                                      2.
    Hiijll~                 t'I      1t1         29         1.0 tJ5             /.5           2.              tJ               ?C        IJ.{) .1!>          I            0      I /Ji. /2 ti tU       tJ                               L7     tJ     /),,   ,?,(7    /Jn
    4-Birds                  I            I       2-       /JI       171 11..t.               tJ              £)       0 ,,,,,            /411 120           I            /    .:z. /] f? tl. If It tJ                                  0      0     /J.O    t9.0     IJ.O
    ~--Dos~et,               J        '?         /£}       IJ.t      t1-~ /1/,                /7              t7        t? ,,,,          ;?o t1.t1           /7            /7  /J /Jt) tJ.tJ tJc;       /J                              /7     /7    /J.{?   ,.,n     t1./)
    6-lmtli, .....        ,ll?        t)  !,t, /]/] 9.5
                                                /ll:1                                         ,;-             /)       5      fg         /JtJ      n        /t/            ,?      I{/         1/,J     r-?n //.J       ?I              17 2/        /I.I/   /J_/J//./.I


I   -
    .,_                                                                                                                       J'.5 IJ.(l ?t;
    7-PsydDlo&ic:al        2.9 ..1 .J'.t. I< cJ.~ /.7                                         !2.             CJ       2,.                                   /J            t7        ,:?        17.0 tJ.o t?.o              I           0   I        11.5" 17. IJ tJ.5
                          ,nil  0 ,ill t?. t, tUJ 17. I.                                     //              ,?      II /~$        (1.tJ /9.f               /',            0       /',         ,,.z./ ao /I/            /I/             /J    /(?    /17.$   /J_n     M,j'
                           59 22. If/ .5./ /.I d.t.                                           ~             0         7 ;2.J       ao 12 ..J                 J             ;/             '7   2JI      s. .z 5:1,      5"              /J     S'     ?.7    ao 2-7

I       Tobi              dLfl       ~B /9/7 11.t, :2~k' /hJ 49                          1
                                                                                                            ~ ~7 11..t 1¢.tJ Im~.                           gf.          42 nu (,t I J'.?.9 /t)d, 9'1                               f5 ldt/ 5,;.g 4-1..:t /{J(J,




I         Evaluation
    - 1....
                                  Number
                                        /9~/J

                                                        PerC111l                Number
                                                                                          /9.<C"/
                                                                                                      PerCenl
                          Certain Doubtful Tol31 Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tblal
                            /9            ,:; :?ti 1/tJ              :?.9 1.19                     f         5
                                                                                                                                                                        Nulll>er
                                                                                                                                                                                      / f'-.::t,
                                                                                                                                                                                        PerCIIII                Number                 PerC...l
                                                                                                                                                            ertain OoubHul Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain DoulJlfu Tollll Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                         '/7 17.t 1/1,3 Ifs ,/7?. :?J1 ltJ.7 i'.I li.i
                                                                                                                      1.t-



I    ~A-icat
    Z-Aimft
    Hill>!-
    4-Birds
                            ?4
                            jg'
                             tJ
                                      //?
                                          ~

                                          /)

                                          /}
                                                 .,,,
                                                5'1 22.i //J.!, 53.2 d/J
                                                    1/&.6" 5:t. 15.1 /!,
                                                 tJ ///J 0.0 /J.t} ~
                                                           ;J,/J                /J. tJ
                                                                                                           //




                                                                                                            tJ
                                                                                                              7
                                                                                                              /
                                                                                                                     fl       l"f. I
                                                                                                                              ?.'1' i'L,5 222- 9,J' J/S" 17.t. ?u 21:p
                                                                                                                     n 111.1' LO l i t 1/,J'..1 /j,Z. ,,,..,,. a~ //},;" .2/. (J
                                                                                                                      .! 11 /J.9 2..t. /fl
                                                                                                                               /1,.,
                                                                                                                                                   9 .2.1 // 127 I I
                             /J                   /?                 ,?_/1                        /?                   /?                 /?.ti    /} /]      /?            tJ            /J    /1/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                        "'·" "1.,:7
I   5-Clouds, Dus~ et,
    6-IMlffic.tih

    .,_
    ~Psydlolo&ic:al
                            0
                            :?/
                             ?,       0
                                       0
                                       CJ
                                                  tJ t:?tJ
                                               /2.2. t1. 0 /Z.Z
                                                :?./
                                                  ~
                                                / 2,.       I. 2,
                                                                     tJ.tJ

                                                                     ao
                                                                                /J.(J         t7
                                                                                             lt7
                                                                                               /
                                                                                                            t?
                                                                                                            C)

                                                                                                            /
                                                                                                                       ,?      /1 /1

                                                                                                                  /0 fl_~ p.o ft.G / / /
                                                                                                                                          t?.IJ JJ. tJ


                                                                                                                    ,t, /J.,; t?.9 1.K 2..1
                                                                                                                                                              j             -?
                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                            ~
                                                                                                                                                                                     //]

                                                                                                                                                                                    ~I /J.O !ll
                                                                                                                                                                                    ///
                                                                                                                                                                                               /J. 2,


                                                                                                                                                                               ?5 ;.f. ,,,:z .2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                        ~t, /J.$


                           ?,/        0
                                                  ,,
                                           ,Pl /PC /) /1 19!                                 ~,t,           Cl 1..-.z. ':1-7,j' /J.O 27f '?2'?
                                                                                                                      .,
                                                                                                                                                                           ,? ?'77 If.ti /JO 1f.t1


I   !I-OIiier


        Total
                             ?


                          131.
                                       ,(/      /. '7 ?.J 1/o


                                     .rt 172- 1-,,9:; ?o,'1 ltltJ·
                                                                                              !,            0            4(3 /J. tJ ✓.J ft,

                                                                                             t;,/ 2..? ,117 ,,;rn_,; /9,I,                        tPP.
                                                                                                                                                                          /✓ c,, 2.9 /. I


                                                                                                                                                           ltJ9' f59 1.2?/ '7/ I. 2VI IP/J.
                                                                                                                                                                                              U,/J




I                                                                     .,(:J(',ll //,fT/<24(




                                                                                                        -
                                                                                    C,                       ~                          (!:5'        ~,,e               SIG           7,                         we?             ,:7,   JC<
                                              -4LL        /_,,,,,.                                                    114"7                                                         lf'v"f                                                /f'.;,(9
                                  Number               Per Cent                                    Per Cent                Nunt.ier              Per Cent                Number                                                                            PerCfnt


I         Enlution
    11-BIIIOCNI
     l·A-ic:al
                          Certain Oowtful Tol31 Certain Domtful Total Certain Domllul Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu
                            /9
                             7
                                     /7
                                     /1.,
                                                 .i'/.
                                                  ,9
                                                           11 "ti 1#.. .t;°
                                                           (t 5.5 ~1                          I
                                                                                               ,?           /J
                                                                                                            2,
                                                                                                                        tJ     /J_ /1     /7.IJ /J,D
                                                                                                                       _; 1✓..J' 2$. (, 12.9
                                                                                                                                                                  /
                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                           tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                           / //J.O      LJ./} /{).L
                                                                                                                                                                                            I l,,;,o /J. tJ ltl.t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4·
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Total Certain Ooubtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I ?:/ "./J 7r /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '1 21.t/ 2ft £,M
    2·AilCllft             ,j;.,     .58'        f?v /f.2. t:7.// JI L
                                                                                ~,            /             I?           I 1//.! /J.O It/. .5                .T              CJ           j    5#.tl t20 ?/J.~           2.             ?.         (/ kif k/. 1 ?ft,


I   Hill>!-
    4-Birds
    5-Clouds, Dal, lie.
                             ,</
                             0
                             0
                                      0
                                      t?
                                          :z         t,
                                                     0
                                                     /]
                                                            I~
                                                           tl./J
                                                           ~o
                                                                      /"J. 9
                                                                     /J.O /},t)
                                                                      /J.() /J,t}
                                                                                              17
                                                                                               0
                                                                                                   /J
                                                                                                            /J
                                                                                                            d
                                                                                                            ,?
                                                                                                                        /J tl.O /J,/J 40
                                                                                                                       t7 tJ.o tJ.o /J/J
                                                                                                                       cJ ,1./1 /7.0 I}.[
                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                             I?
                                                                                                                                                              t1
                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                            tJ
                                                                                                                                                                            n
                                                                                                                                                                                          I I//J.O tJO /t).p
                                                                                                                                                                                          I?
                                                                                                                                                                                          I?
                                                                                                                                                                                                IJ.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                ,?,(J
                                                                                                                                                                                                         t?.t) o. 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    tJO tl.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         L7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         t7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        c?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0     /J/J

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /!J 11.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0 ·tJ.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               /1/J

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IJ.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /J,/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /J./)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /J /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    t}.tJ

    . __
    6-lnsuffi,lolo.         /9            0       /I/ i'f tJ.O %.7                                t7        0          tJ IJ./J /J./J IJ.0                    /J            Cl            tJ ,1tJ IJ. r; /J.O            L7             n       0     CJ.o IJ.tJ tl. a
                                                                                                                                                                 ,..,
I   7-Pll)dlolo&ic:al


    !I-OIiier
                            J
                           ¢/
                           10
                                      ,?
                                      .J
                                          /        ,/ 11/ /J ,;- 1.9
                                                 ;/I /Ii tl. tJ tf.f
                                                 ,,, ~✓-             1,,/       1..0
                                                                                              0
                                                                                               I
                                                                                               $
                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                            tJ
                                                                                                            a
                                                                                                                       0 tJ.IJ /J.O /!.o
                                                                                                                        I 1ef..1 /J.tJ It/ :J
                                                                                                                        fl, ?1.t. ,?.tJ 11.t
                                                                                                                                                             t7
                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                            ,?

                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                           J'
                                                                                                                                                                                           ,? 17.cJ tJ.O {).t)
                                                                                                                                                                                          {) /J.tJ tJ.O 4-,;
                                                                                                                                                                                          ,/ /tJ.v      1ao
                                                                                                                                                                                                         1/tJ,I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .2,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                n     t?.tJ tl. t:l t?.a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2, 1./:J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CJ tJ.{)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /7 /] 1./.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /J.0     /1.0

                                                                                                                        ,, l~u ff.
I       Total             ,t./~      13 i;f 1/.L'.I. HV I ~                                   5"            ?_                              t, l,m,,          ,f           .3        /0 ,f(l. tJ .?tJ.17 ltJo.           ~              I.     IQ ~7,/ 4';_9 /tlO




I         Evaluabon
    ().Balloon
                                     -         /?5""0
                                                        Per Cent
                          Certain Doubtful Total Certain O..btful Tolal
                                 I        {)         I     ,,, n t?.tJ J/J 0
                                                                                                        Nlllllbel
                                                                                                                     /I/.<;
                                                                                                                          PerCmt
                                                                                             ertain Doubtful Total Certain Domtful Total
                                                                                              tJ              tJ        t) /J,11 t1.0 /J.o                  /If,
                                                                                                                                                                   Number


                                                                                                                                                                         17
                                                                                                                                                                                    /9



                                                                                                                                                                                    'U
                                                                                                                                                                                        Percent
                                                                                                                                                                                                2-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Number
                                                                                                                                                            ertain Domtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                9.1      fJ /f'.f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Percent




I   !l•Asl1t1nomical
    2-Aucraft
    3-Liehl Phenom.
    4-Birds
                             /}
                             #'
                             0
                             ~
                                      {/


                                      tJ
                                      tJ
                                          /


                                                  0
                                                     /}
                                                     5
                                                     /J
                                                           t?.LJ ,:J.0 CI/J
                                                           4i1o /{JIJ 5t7.L;
                                                            tl.O
                                                           ,::l.O
                                                                      /Jt)
                                                                     ac ao
                                                                                00
                                                                                              0
                                                                                              /J


                                                                                               /}
                                                                                                  /J
                                                                                                              /J

                                                                                                              /J
                                                                                                              ,:?
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                       t?  tJ.o /J.t) /J.O
                                                                                                                       /J 4./J 0.0 tJ.tJ
                                                                                                                       /J 17.0 tJ.O /J.O
                                                                                                                       {/ /J.O /J.O l]./J
                                                                                                                                                            5:Z..
                                                                                                                                                                 fl,


                                                                                                                                                                  ?
                                                                                                                                                                  /J
                                                                                                                                                                         75 /A7 IL.J' ~o
                                                                                                                                                                          ?,
                                                                                                                                                                             ,!


                                                                                                                                                                             .;- I., / /
                                                                                                                                                                            tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                          f?



                                                                                                                                                                                          0 /1/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                / I      11,u



                                                                                                                                                                                                        IJ. 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,/G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                33.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                tJ./J


I   ~Clouds, Dust. etc.
    6-tnsuff1c.-.111.
                             0
                             I         cJ
                                          /)         0
                                                     /
                                                           00
                                                          lt?.tJ t2IJ
                                                                     ao ,2()
                                                                                //<O           /J
                                                                                                  /J          0
                                                                                                              /J
                                                                                                                       tJ 00 t20 0,/J
                                                                                                                       t? 00 0.0 ao
                                                                                                                                                              (7

                                                                                                                                                            //"
                                                                                                                                                                            0             0 4,/J
                                                                                                                                                                            cJ /t' /t?.f /)_/,) /(J..J'
                                                                                                                                                                                                        t?.O '1"




    -
    7-Psydlo~~c:al           0        0           tJ t2tJ            /J./J      /J,..,         /J             /J        /J /JC} /JO o.o                      .J              /  4 /.7 11.~ 2.3
    1-Unllno•               z         (?          2. 2/).0           /J,,7 ?/J{J                  I         0           / ,qj.,., ,,,,., !fil).()          .l!F             0 -?5              $0,/J    tl.O ,1/J.O


I       Total
                             /


                            'I
                                      0


                                      I          //]
                                                     /    /(2(7     ;?. ;?


                                                          '?0.17 ,,,,,o Vt'a
                                                                               /PP

                                                                                             .z
                                                                                                  /         0


                                                                                                           cJ
                                                                                                                       /      1=.o


                                                                                                                      2, I/alt 17.0
                                                                                                                                         CJ.t)    5,7p


                                                                                                                                                  ,=       nd
                                                                                                                                                              ~            ,:? 5

                                                                                                                                                                         /,,/
                                                                                                                                                                                                :?_fl   ,!l,/J :?.fl


                                                                                                                                                                                   Ff..:- il.L'.t .N.i /a>.



I                                                                                                                                       147

I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
         blluahoa
    0-Bllloon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
    3-Lipt Ptlenom.
    4-Birds
    5-Cloucts. Dust. etc.
    6-lnsuffit. klll,.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
    7-Psydllllo&iCII




        Total

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
    I
          Evaluation
    0-Balloon
                                    Numbet'
                                                    /tJS-t:J
                                                          Per Cent
                            Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Oomtful Total Certain OaubllJI Total ~ertain Ooublful Total Certain Ootmlful Total Certain Ooublfu

                               ?            t}        2        9./       /) /J
                                                                                  Number


                                                                                    t;_ I   . /J
                                                                                                       PerC811


                                                                                                        /J
                                                                                                              19~/


                                                                                                               t) 4/J
                                                                                                                               Nulmer


                                                                                                                                /1/1      /J. /J
                                                                                                                                                     p., Cent


                                                                                                                                                       //J            9
                                                                                                                                                                           /9~2,
                                                                                                                                                                             Nullbel


                                                                                                                                                                            /9    ~r 4.¢ , . .1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PerCe1t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Total Certain OoubHul Total    I
    I-Astronomical
    7-Aircraft
    3·Li&h1Ptl810m.
    4-Bnds
                               tJ
                               i
                               /)

                               CJ
                                            tl

                                            /J
                                           <}
                                               I
                                                      tJ t:'tJ
                                                       9 .?t-~ 4.5 9'P.9
                                                       /)     /)/)

                                                       tJ /J /) tJt) lo.O
                                                                          /J/)



                                                                         /J/) /Jr,
                                                                                   tJL)
                                                                                             /
                                                                                             L)

                                                                                             /J
                                                                                                /
                                                                                                    /J
                                                                                                    c>
                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                        ;?     ,/ //].,7 .f',?./J IL"/4,:,
                                                                                                                /        tJ.tJ l//1.C) ¢/
                                                                                                                     /t).t)
                                                                                                               /J ,1/1 ,:l./J /J.tJ
                                                                                                               /J /J./J /J.O t?.tJ
                                                                                                                                       ~
                                                                                                                                                        u
                                                                                                                                                         t
                                                                                                                                                                 ~,
                                                                                                                                                                   ~
                                                                                                                                                                   ,:
                                                                                                                                                                      ?      //J /.6'" j_9'
                                                                                                                                                                            Lu .//J.t. /IJ J/.~
                                                                                                                                                                            /tJ _2,,7 J. () 5:P
                                                                                                                                                                              9 ?./J         .,1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ¢.1


                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,;,,-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
    ~Cloud~ Dus~ et~
    6-lnsuffic.tnfo.
    7-Psychoiogical
    &-Unkno11111
                               tJ
                               ,/
                               /J
                              ,;
                                            tl
                                            tJ
                                            /J
                                            tJ
                                                      tJ /) tJ tJ.t? t). I)
                                                       t/ l1t2 tJ.tJ Iii
                                                       /}     tl.tl
                                                      ~ 1-??.1 tJ. tJ 11.
                                                                         t?_/? /J_I!
                                                                                            /
                                                                                             I?


                                                                                            /J
                                                                                            .5
                                                                                                    /J
                                                                                                    Cl

                                                                                                    C)
                                                                                                        /J
                                                                                                               /J /J.tJ t?.tl /J."
                                                                                                                I /,,,, /J. tJ /Cl.O ~;
                                                                                                                t1 tJ.tJ tJ_ tJ t:?.t? t1
                                                                                                               .3 :Jp_p atJ .?P-17 ,:;-,
                                                                                                                                        L)                        tJ

                                                                                                                                                                  ~
                                                                                                                                                                   L)



                                                                                                                                                                   /J
                                                                                                                                                                             L) LJ."   /7.tJ tJ.t)
                                                                                                                                                                           ff$ //..3 /9.P 11.J
                                                                                                                                                                             :2, /J.0 /.tJ    /,()

                                                                                                                                                                           6''1 jf.,7 /J/J 21.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
    9-0ll'ler


        Total               1u
                               /            /


                                           £,
                                                      ?, u'5 4._,;- 9~


                                                    .t:l "/J. Q 9./               /()().     1
                                                                                                /   ,,;


                                                                                                    J
                                                                                                                I 1/J.P ti. tJ /tJ.t ~

                                                                                                              //) if,?.t) :J'(J.t) /OP                /5'tl
                                                                                                                                                                   /       -9 t9 t?.5 1/s

                                                                                                                                                                5$ 2{):J '&. 9 '2£../ 1,7p.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
    I

    I
          Evaluahon
    ~Balloon
    I-Astronomical
                                    I
                                   /,I
                                         Number



                                            ;/
                                                ~LJ,.




                                                /
                                                              VEA~



                                                       :?. /...1 /..1'
                                                       f tU 5:/
                                                                       Per Cent


                                                                                    o:.
                                                                                   ,n_.t
                                                                                             /J
                                                                                             I?
                                                                                                    -
                            Certain 0Ollblful Total Certain Oomtful Total Certain Oomlful Total Certain OoubHul Total


                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                        /J
                                                                                                              /4     I"?



                                                                                                                ,.,u t?.tJ
                                                                                                                               Percent



                                                                                                                     ,..,,., -1"
                                                                                                                                 /},/J /J. D
                                                                                                                                          /J /J
                                                                                                                                                               Nurttler
                                                                                                                                                       ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Ooubtfu Total Certain Doubtful Total


                                                                                                                                                        ,.,
                                                                                                                                                         I)           /J
                                                                                                                                                                       /
                                                                                                                                                                           /lfQ I{'
                                                                                                                                                                                            Per Cent


                                                                                                                                                                             tJ /J.LJ ao L}./l
                                                                                                                                                                             I /J.CJ 26:0 ~,:;
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Numbef


                                                                                                                                                                                                                 t1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /94"'9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PerCmt




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /J   /1/1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /J /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               tJ,/} /?/'l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               /J. t1 17.,,;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
    l•Aitcrah                  j            I,        , ..18             1~ //.,;           0       Cl         /J     /}/}      17.tl tP.tl             /         0           I 25.t? t1- 0 25.o                 tJ     I         I    /7./J '1. -7 '/. '1
                                                                                            ,.,
    3-Li,ttt Phenoa.
    4-Buds
    ~Cloud~ Ou~ et~
    6-lnsuffic. klll,.
                               L)
                              //}
                                   ?
                                   //
                                            /)

                                            I
                                            /J
                                            /J
                                                      s f.f
                                                       5
                                                       ,?
                                                              5./
                                                                         ,? /}



                                                               A.ti ti. ti P.tJ
                                                      ;() 11-1 /).()
                                                                         I. 3
                                                                                   JB
                                                                                   .t..4

                                                                                  /1-1
                                                                                            B
                                                                                            tJ
                                                                                            II
                                                                                                     /J
                                                                                                    t?
                                                                                                    /J
                                                                                                    /J
                                                                                                              /J
                                                                                                               /J
                                                                                                                p
                                                                                                               tJ
                                                                                                                      /J/J
                                                                                                                      /}/')

                                                                                                                     /l,/J
                                                                                                                                /J_ /J
                                                                                                                                tJ./J
                                                                                                                        tJ. /} /J_I)
                                                                                                                   /J,n /J. /J /)_I)
                                                                                                                                           tJ_,j

                                                                                                                                           tJ.O
                                                                                                                                                         /J
                                                                                                                                                        (J
                                                                                                                                                        /J
                                                                                                                                                           /
                                                                                                                                                                  /J
                                                                                                                                                                   I?
                                                                                                                                                                   I?
                                                                                                                                                                      /]     /J
                                                                                                                                                                             /}

                                                                                                                                                                             /J
                                                                                                                                                                                  ,:?_,;;
                                                                                                                                                                                  t?,n /JtJ
                                                                                                                                                                                  ,.,,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                               /? /,


                                                                                                                                                                                         /JI? tJo
                                                                                                                                                                              I 1,:;_o ,,,, 2-,:;o
                                                                                                                                                                                                  .z
                                                                                                                                                                                                       t7.e,
                                                                                                                                                                                                       t),t:J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /J

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ✓
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Cl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /J    tl.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  :t. 15.// /J.LJ ll~-41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /, /J./)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IJ./J t}.t)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /J. t1 /J.t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t/ ?A.R ().t) ~o.t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
    7-Psydl>lo&iCII
    &-Unlalo•
    9-0lllei
                              .J

                              ,,
                             11
                                             I   ✓ .r. I
                                             /) 12, ,//}_,;
                                                I     ~       t. 3
                                                                          ,.-7 !,. /
                                                                         /J_ I) l,/4_~
                                                                         /.3 11..
                                                                                             ~
                                                                                                /


                                                                                                /   /)
                                                                                                        /
                                                                                                        /J
                                                                                                               .t /2.5 /2.5 1A tJ
                                                                                                               :: //1f:
                                                                                                               I     /2.t;
                                                                                                                                 0,/J 1,7.5
                                                                                                                                 ,7_,,-; 12.!,
                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                        /}

                                                                                                                                                        t?
                                                                                                                                                                  /}

                                                                                                                                                                  t}
                                                                                                                                                                  /)        0
                                                                                                                                                                              I 25.o tJ.tl 25.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                             /)    ,,,,., 4/) /J /, 4'
                                                                                                                                                                                  t?.tl       ao /J. tJ I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /    /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /   '7 ? /1,/J 7. 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ti .,~_5? /7,/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /    'f.7    t?.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ?nfl

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7.'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                            ,,
        Total                /,!,          /./ 19 lf2.1 /?. 7                     //]~              I         ~      fl,f,:;   /7.5 /a:1.              ..!        /         4 11',::- tJ flt;_/) /(K}.          /.t..       I    /.i' fi2.3 '1.7 lot>.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
          Enluahon
    0-Ballo,n                  tJ
                                         -
                            Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tola! {;ertain Ooulllful Total Certain OoubHul Total
                                           0
                                                    19S(J
                                                          Per Cent


                                                      (} tJ.l.l         17, L) 11.0
                                                                                   N-


                                                                                             I.?    tJ
                                                                                                             /q,;-/
                                                                                                          Per Cent

                                                                                                               (}     /J_,1      /} /'}   n. /J
                                                                                                                                                      =••·
                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                               Nu-
                                                                                                                                                                            19,~
                                                                                                                                                                                    Percent                 Number              Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                               Oomllul Total Certain Ooublful Total Certain OouWul Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                    /  ?. 2./ 2.1 dz
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
    1-Ashonoaical
    2•Ancraft
    3-Liptl'IMlloll.
    l·Billls
                               I
                              tJ
                               /)

                               /J
                                           /}
                                           0
                                           /J
                                           1J
                                                      CJ
                                                       /J
                                                       /}
                                                          /   ,;,,n
                                                               /1/2

                                                               /7./J
                                                                         /J.O E/J.()
                                                                         /J./7
                                                                         ,1,1 ,J,n
                                                              /10 (}_ t1 Cl.I)
                                                                                   o.o
                                                                                            /)


                                                                                            Cl
                                                                                            0
                                                                                             L)
                                                                                                    /7
                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                               17 /111
                                                                                                               CJ tJ.O /J./J 00
                                                                                                               /)
                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                      tUJ
                                                                                                                      /1/>
                                                                                                                                /JtJ /J n

                                                                                                                                /)/)

                                                                                                                               !ltJ.tJ M.O
                                                                                                                                          ,, ,1
                                                                                                                                                       ~


                                                                                                                                                       £
                                                                                                                                                         r
                                                                                                                                                        .7
                                                                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                                                                 5 ,7 1¢.' j' /(). t 11/.f
                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                      L. lt.4"' ,:._,/ /J,g

                                                                                                                                                                      s i.,1/ /), tJ /..//
                                                                                                                                                                      .ti¥$ t')_t) 4.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
    Hlouds, Ous~et~
    6-llsldlit.lltD.
                               /J
                              /)
                                           /J
                                           t1
                                                      /}

                                                      tl
                                                              /}/} t?./J /,I/)

                                                              tl.c? 00 o.o
                                                                                            /J
                                                                                                I
                                                                                                    L)

                                                                                                    /J
                                                                                                               /J
                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                      ,1/J
                                                                                                                     ?,7/J
                                                                                                                                17,{J

                                                                                                                                LJ.LJ
                                                                                                                                           t?.P
                                                                                                                                          .,,._,,.,
                                                                                                                                          ao
                                                                                                                                                        /7
                                                                                                                                                        ,v'
                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                  LJ
                                                                                                                                                                      0 /J.tJ /J.t) /J.tl
                                                                                                                                                                      ,j i'.5 17.0 (?~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
    -
    7-Psydllllopcal            /}         tJ          t}      "7.0      tJ. /) Cl./?         ;?     0          (/I    /J. ()    tl.tJ                  t}        Cl   t? /1,, /J./) /J,/J
    ,._                        I          0           /       w.o c:ic? 5i:J.O              2..     0         £, V/1,/)          d. /J d/7.I)          f/0       tJ ~ ¢?.5' nn ,~.6




'
        Total
                              u'

                              2.
                                          L}



                                           tJ
                                                      /J      t]O t? tl .ao

                                                     2,. ltJ()t         /1{) I/a?.
                                                                                            /


                                                                                            4
                                                                                                    0

                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                               I     <14,:


                                                                                                              !, lc1A.CI
                                                                                                                                11.0 !!()./)

                                                                                                                                IJ/1/1 JN,
                                                                                                                                                        $,

                                                                                                                                                      .17 /t7
                                                                                                                                                                  /   $ t/.3 .2./ l..'1


                                                                                                                                                                           ¢7 1-t?.1' 111.S            ✓✓?A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                             148
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
I
I
I                                     .                                                                                                                                         Fe;f    ,4,t.L.




                                                                                                                                                                                                              -
                                                                           /11///f?    e~      &7,F Pd./<Fi!r.5              Pe.e           S/t;#T//1,~                     /J/vMdE.e &7r CJ4JGt!.7'.5                     ,1,,Pr SrA,BP
                                              /11..1..    t/c1US                                          ,,t?.r7                                                /9,1/j'                                           /?</~
                                    rt,mber               Per Cent                            Nmber                  PerCml                      Number                Per Cent                                      Per Cent
            Enluahoo        Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total              ertain Doul>llul Tola! Cortain Doulltful Total       main Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Cerlain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total


I       0-8111000
        1-Astftlnollical
        2-Ai,alfl
                               41
                              1¢
                              .J'
                                           I          I.I
                                                     '5
                                        I 15 255 If{ 113
                                       41 ? 5r/ ;U /.?.7
                                                          ?.'f      /!(
                                                                                         /
                                                                                          I

                                                                                         I?
                                                                                                     /J
                                                                                                     u
                                                                                                     ,?
                                                                                                            /1?5/J /J /}
                                                                                                           I .?5:o 0,/J
                                                                                                           /J   /Jn      'l"
                                                                                                                                  ,J,:; I
                                                                                                                                  '71: /J
                                                                                                                                  nn
                                                                                                                                              L/
                                                                                                                                              /7
                                                                                                                                              /7
                                                                                                                                                           ,?

                                                                                                                                                           /
                                                                                                                                                           /}
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                   /
                                                                                                                                                                  t?
                                                                                                                                                                           ,,,_,.,  tJ.tJ 17,t)
                                                                                                                                                                           /J,IJ I ?,;;,o 16:t)
                                                                                                                                                                           /J,(J     /J/J     17.IJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,,:J
                                                                                                                                                                                                       :f!_
                                                                                                                                                                                                       /7
                                                                                                                                                                                                              CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                               /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                              17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /J dtJ lt1.L1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         £S:I. /J.Cl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AA       /J,IJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,(}.t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ?fr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              11A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    t,

                                                                                                                .,,,, /1/J ~,.,
I                                                   _j' fl.
    3-Li;,tl'IIIIIOII.         .1           I                                 ,,:-,J                 /}                                                            I       /7.n 26:0 ?£.tJ
                                                                    /.ft                 tJ                /J                                 /?           /                                           /7      0     /7    17./J     ,tl.t)    /1/J
        4-Birds                J       tl           J     s:~ tl.O ,cg                   17          /}   /J    /).IJ    /),,
                                                                                                                                  "l"'       /7            /2     t?       "'/}      tl /} t?,/J       17      /7    /]    /J,/J     /J.t)     ~,.,
    $,Clouds, Dus~ et~                             tJ ,a,:;                                                     ,,,,, /7_ /J                                                                           I?
    6-lnsuffic."tt.
                               /J
                              //
                                       /J
                                       t?         // 1'/J.tJ
                                                                    /}/J

                                                                  tJ.CJ &}.t)
                                                                              /1/J       /J
                                                                                         :2.
                                                                                                     /2    /J
                                                                                                     ,r;· :2. 6PtJ /1,11 /oil/)
                                                                                                                                  /J/J       17
                                                                                                                                             2,         tJ
                                                                                                                                                           /)      I} /J /J
                                                                                                                                                                   ?.
                                                                                                                                                                                  /JI> /J, /J
                                                                                                                                                                           O.tJ st),/) r,,,            ?
                                                                                                                                                                                                               17
                                                                                                                                                                                                               /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,;    ~,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (1.1)     l?.o     (:?.,t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     t?,'/J 21.~



I       7,Psydmlo~cat
        ·Unlulo•
        9-oa,,.
                               tJ
                               t
                               z       0
                                        t?
                                          I          I tJtJ /. f1 I!
                                                    f< 1;4/';;;- t?O //JG
                                                    ,t, n. tl. tJ f.l.
                                                                                         /J
                                                                                        17
                                                                                        17       .tl
                                                                                                     ,?

                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                           /J
                                                                                                          ,IJ
                                                                                                          /7
                                                                                                                 /7_/J

                                                                                                                /J.IJ
                                                                                                                ~,,
                                                                                                                           11.IJ /J n
                                                                                                                          /J. {)  ,,,.,
                                                                                                                         /J.O /1,/J
                                                                                                                                              17
                                                                                                                                             CJ
                                                                                                                                             CJ
                                                                                                                                                       Cl
                                                                                                                                                       t?
                                                                                                                                                           /}      17 /7.,-;
                                                                                                                                                                  tJ /J /J
                                                                                                                                                                  tJ /J /I
                                                                                                                                                                                     t?IJ l'llJ
                                                                                                                                                                                     /J/1     l'J.()
                                                                                                                                                                                     /J IJ /J.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                       /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                       J'
                                                                                                                                                                                                       17
                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                               CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                               /?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     17     /7_'1    t7_t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     JILl?.4 t).t) 4;,9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,,, ,, .,,_,,, /J.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    t)




I           Total            .It        .i' 55 IA'C5 /l(,,; /P,,.                       Q       CJ        ef l(?/).l      CJ./) ft¥).        2,        £.         ✓ fl}.() 51).t) ltld                 1'     tJ     ~     1111>1)   /J.() /t)().




I   I Evaluation
        II-Balloon
                            Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certair. Oocmtlul Total Cortain Doubtful Tobi certain
                               1?
                                    Number


                                          /J
                                                 1tJ,t,'J
                                                          PerCeot

                                                    /J 17.tJ ao 117.0
                                                                                   Number


                                                                                         /J          /J
                                                                                                          /9',/
                                                                                                         Per Cent

                                                                                                           tJ 0./J /J./} o.o
                                                                                                                                Nun>er

                                                                                                                                              f
                                                                                                                                                       _,
                                                                                                                                                           /
                                                                                                                                                                  ,,,:;~::z.,
                                                                                                                                                                              Per Cent                Nuaber               PerCmt
                                                                                                                                                                 Total Certain Dodrtfut Talat Cortaia Ooubtfu Total Cortaia llarbtlrl Total
                                                                                                                                                                   ef Jl.i' ~.9 1//.7

I       l·A-icat
        2-Airmlt
        3-Liat,t Pllenom.
        4-Birds
                               2.
                               /}
                                t}
                               /}
                                        £)


                                       tJ
                                       /J
                                          ,J
                                                   ,t, l~t.1 tJ.O 16L. 'J
                                                    ,?

                                                    IJ
                                                   /)
                                                            /1,/,
                                                          ,?n
                                                            /J,/)
                                                                    /),J')    /) /l

                                                                    IJ. () /J. 15
                                                                    /J /)     /1. 0
                                                                                         ,?
                                                                                         /)

                                                                                         ,?

                                                                                         t?
                                                                                                  0

                                                                                                  a
                                                                                                  LJ
                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                           tJ /1_/) /2/J 0.0
                                                                                                           /

                                                                                                          /J
                                                                                                                IJ.O .J'.1- '; ~?3
                                                                                                                /J./J
                                                                                                                 lltJ tlO
                                                                                                                17./J
                                                                                                                          /)n      tJ.IJ      ?,
                                                                                                                                              .J'
                                                                                                                                                  .
                                                                                                                                                  9        ,?
                                                                                                                                                           ?
                                                                                                                                                           ,?
                                                                                                                                                           /,/
                                                                                                                                                                   9 2t.,; O.t7 2t.5
                                                                                                                                                                   L L~ i'.R /'};~
                                                                                                                                                                   .2 ,,_ 9
                                                                                                                                                                       ?
                                                                                                                                                                                     /)_,O

                                                                                                                                                                           s. 9' ti?.o K.i
                                                                                                                                                                                              t:.9

                                                                                                                                                                                              ,,,_,,
I       5-Cloud~ Dus~ et~
        6-lnsuffic.lnlo.
        7-Psychololic.al
        a-u-...
                               /}
                               I}
                               0
                               0
                                        tJ
                                        tJ
                                        0
                                       tJ
                                                   (l
                                                    /J
                                                    /J
                                                   tJ
                                                          /)/J
                                                          1'7.t)
                                                          rJ.17
                                                          /1.0
                                                                    /J.,? ,? /J
                                                                    /},?


                                                                    0.0 /1.0
                                                                    t?.0 o.o
                                                                              tl.O
                                                                                         /J
                                                                                         ~
                                                                                         t?
                                                                                         tl
                                                                                                  tJ


                                                                                                  Cl
                                                                                                     t7
                                                                                                     t7
                                                                                                          /J 0.0 CJ.tJ /JJ)
                                                                                                          .2 l/.1..'
                                                                                                           /J

                                                                                                          /J
                                                                                                                /1,1,
                                                                                                                /J.O
                                                                                                                         ~17 l.1.L.J
                                                                                                                          1"7.0
                                                                                                                         0. tJ
                                                                                                                                  1'20
                                                                                                                                  CJ.,?      ~
                                                                                                                                              CJ
                                                                                                                                                  ,?

                                                                                                                                                  7
                                                                                                                                                           /7

                                                                                                                                                           t7
                                                                                                                                                            /
                                                                                                                                                           ,?
                                                                                                                                                                   J
                                                                                                                                                                   /
                                                                                                                                                                       ,? ;?_,:J

                                                                                                                                                                           JH' e?.t:7
                                                                                                                                                                           ,,,_,.,

                                                                                                                                                                  ... n/-, 0.,:J 1,l?
                                                                                                                                                                                     ,:J.CJ

                                                                                                                                                                                     ~.9 ?.-?
                                                                                                                                                                                              .a


I   ;
        9-0tlle,


            Talat
                               I


                              .f
                                       0


                                       /J
                                                    I     11!       /1.0


                                                 .J' ltl?." o.o I/O/J.
                                                                             J'U         /J


                                                                                        .2,      I
                                                                                                     t7   n /J.O ,? 0
                                                                                                          J' IV-.7 .f'J.:J Va?.
                                                                                                                                  00


                                                                                                                                            2?
                                                                                                                                                  /


                                                                                                                                                       5
                                                                                                                                                        t:?        / :?.9
                                                                                                                                                                       ,             (?./7 ,2.9


                                                                                                                                                                 .f'~ IS',6:.1 /4~ /Pt7.


I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I                                                                                                                        149

I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                         f',94L.e


                                     ,.,_"7/]r, /.
                                                                E l(m 1//17/t>IV
                                                                #(/,U#J;L


                                                                      PttCent
                                                                                          t'JF
                                                                                                      t?F     t'JA
                                                                                                        t'Jd.lc/!75


                                                                                                  N1111ber
                                                                                                                    /?4"7
                                                                                                                         un:r

                                                                                                                        Per Cent
                                                                                                                                   Rt~
                                                                                                                                                    SIGN'~T,~t=d(~G~S~-~6~e=,,r~-11~"-="-~-f1~1!c"-A='.R~=5_ _~d'~f'~------
                                                                                                                                                    5/G,¥-r/A✓ G •


                                                                                                                                                Number                 Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                  cl,1/£
                                                                                                                                                                                      / /?q rt
                                                                                                                                                                                                t?.R✓Ee.r •


                                                                                                                                                                                               Number                PerCenl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /?<!'9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
        Evaluahon        Cerhon Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total                      ertain Doubtful Tolal Certain Doobtful Total ~ertain llolmtful Total Certain Doubtful Tola! Certain Doubtful Total Certain DoulJlful Total
,0-Billoon                 ,,v.                                                              <                                 Ill (J,()                                                 h %.1 117.'4                   t.? /J/ ~.J'
,.                              "'" 2U ,,aff 1..1 11-:                                                      /}       5                               /I. I           /1.l     /0
                                                                                                                                                                                ,., 2/J t/1                 2,                  //)              /.:,.
    I-Astronomical        ,t,IR 1n l/2t. ;,;:t Jtl. 9 tt.1                                       '1          " / j ' I,,::,:; /f.:J 21.9                         -,,:                       /t.,,:; JU ,,,~
                                                                                                                                                                                          ,/,,              &:''J ?'.;-     .!5.S ~1.t                        /"5,/f
1----r-
12-Ancrlft                IN IV~ 117 1P t, $7 /9..S                                              /J
                                                                                                             ,,_     .t       d,/ ¢.<I
                                                                                                                               /1/1                                   ~          ,<I       /1 'l'f          ?.S' /I. .1        /'>       L       :2/          //.l.J I;//        1¢.//
3-Li&fll Phenom.
4-Birds
5-Clouds. Dust, etc.
6-lnsuffic.lntt.
                            11

                            j
                          /1.f
                              I
                                  1 1<1 /1.l IN' 1.¢
                                  I  t, /J./
                                  7 1/J /J. t, /J.Q /)_£,
                                        O ,1.9
                                                 tl.l 02

                                                            ,a/ ,,,, /1)1
                                                                                             ?_
                                                                                             /)



                                                                                             &;'
                                                                                                 /)
                                                                                                            /}

                                                                                                            /)

                                                                                                            /)

                                                                                                             ()
                                                                                                                     2. Q./,1 11.tJ ¢.~
                                                                                                                     /}
                                                                                                                               ,,,,,
                                                                                                                              /J.tJ /J/.
                                                                                                                    /J /J.tJ /J /J IJ.O
                                                                                                                     ,; //./ tJ.(l //./                          /I;/
                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                      /


                                                                                                                                                                      /)
                                                                                                                                                                                  ()


                                                                                                                                                                                 ()
                                                                                                                                                                                 17
                                                                                                                                                                                     /
                                                                                                                                                                                            I J?.9
                                                                                                                                                                                            2. /J. 9
                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                      /I/ 11.t.
                                                                                                                                                                                                   1'7.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     tl. 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.i
                                                                                                                                                                                                            .tUJ 0. tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                            tlo 12 ..z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ;?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /3

                                                                                                                                                                                                                               /h
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /I.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               /) /J

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              tJ.P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /J.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              //.1.l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /J./J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ~/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        'i"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AA


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /1,/1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IJ.()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        O.t? //.tl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
a.--
    7-Psydlololical


t-Olller
                           'Jfi
                          2f1
                            ,;?
                                        :5

                                       /~
                                                  ?I
                                           I) -,,;,,

                                                  '1;
                                                             /. 7
                                                            ;it tJ.t? 1r.t
                                                             :!. ,;
                                                                        IJ.:2.

                                                                         I.I
                                                                                  1.9

                                                                                  ¢.t,
                                                                                             2.
                                                                                            /t?

                                                                                             "
                                                                                                            /)

                                                                                                            l.l
                                                                                                             /)
                                                                                                                    2.1#-'4"
                                                                                                                    //] 112.:2.
                                                                                                                    I.
                                                                                                                                           &.IJ
                                                                                                                                    ti.tl ?'1.7
                                                                                                                               11.J IJ.tl /f.1
                                                                                                                                                     ,u
                                                                                                                                                                ,✓
                                                                                                                                                                 .2
                                                                                                                                                                     /J          .t?   0  /).tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                 ;? 1<1 /t.2

                                                                                                                                                                                  ,<I '1 2.t
                                                                                                                                                                                                            ~l.l ().()
                                                                                                                                                                                                            /J.P /J.t
                                                                                                                                                                                                            3.!, t..l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1,;-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,;       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         n       /_t:;

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I         ,a7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,n_g
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ?u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        an A. "7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        l.l/J //1,./
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /;l.t)   .?.4'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
       Tolol             //1,J       1/U 1/.Jt 11 ~ 2f_ 5 /()O                             .11              % o/"5' l<f'j( 2 11. f la!                           11           J'f 115 1 ✓• ...17 .If.() ,,,,,                  R5 ~t?            / ~ sf.1 ///. .7 I/a;>.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
         Evaluahon
    0-Balloon
                                  Number
                                                 ,0,.-/1

                                                        Per Cent                Number                 PerC01I
                                                                                                                   /95/
                                                                                                                               Nud>er                Per Cent                Nomber
                                                                                                                                                                                           /f.5"2,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Per Cent
                          Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doll>llul Total Certain Doubtful Total ~erlain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Douhtfu Total Certain Ooublful Total
                            IR             QflZ /.t.9 ?.9 l!i.i                                             .J' // ?.f 1'. 9 ,n.1 1/9,:-                                        40 2/5 //.5                 $.5 19.!I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                             "
    I-Astronomical
    2-Aircraft
    3-Liatit Ptlenom.
                           -,,/
                            ,ti
                             /J
                                       Fl SI 11.I /(). I) 21 I
                                           '/ 'JI
                                           /J      0
                                                            //}./)
                                                             /2()
                                                                        !,,/J /S.O
                                                                         Ot? 0.0
                                                                                             /t;
                                                                                            ,✓

                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                            // !2L. F/.1 //J.1 2i>.S /"!;<,'
                                                                                                            L U) /.1.7
                                                                                                            /    :1_ I.ti
                                                                                                                          "-' /9L
                                                                                                                          /.tJ 2.o
                                                                                                                                     in,o

                                                                                                                                        /~
                                                                                                                                                                                 ?'L 2 ?/ /,://
                                                                                                                                                                              1/J!

                                                                                                                                                                                     L
                                                                                                                                                                                          t//'o
                                                                                                                                                                                           d
                                                                                                                                                                                                   //.2.
                                                                                                                                                                                                    /2,
                                                                                                                                                                                                            '/.'O 2,/. I
                                                                                                                                                                                                            l,?J 22-t
                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,,,,     I./
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
    4-Birds                     /)         0   tJ ll. tJ tl.t? /J. tJ                        0              0        /J tJ.cJ &.               v tJ./)                d          0          {l      /1/1    12 /J    ,?...-;
    ~Clood~ Dus~ et~
    6-lnsuHit. lnfa.
    I-Psychological
                             /)
                            ,,,
                             2,
                                           0

                                           0
                                               0   ,,n tlo tl.o
                                           tJ 21 1s:tJ tJ.{} /5t>
                                                   2, 1.t.1 IJ.0 1.t.l
                                                                                             /}


                                                                                             117
                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                            17


                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                     tJ tJ.tJ 17./J
                                                                                                                    //J
                                                                                                                     2,
                                                                                                                               n
                                                                                                                           u1 ?.P
                                                                                                                               1/J       ~,,
                                                                                                                                            120
                                                                                                                                                      /J, /]
                                                                                                                                                      n         /17.1
                                                                                                                                                                      ?          ?'
                                                                                                                                                                                  "
                                                                                                                                                                                  z
                                                                                                                                                                                            ,,,, 17. ~ a,
                                                                                                                                                                                          ,,,.7 P.5
                                                                                                                                                                                           2,/ ?.tl
                                                                                                                                                                                                            tl.P 1-5
                                                                                                                                                                                                            d.?. ?.Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /J.9

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
    8-Unk.no.11             .JI            tJ     .11 ~t./ IJ.O 22.I                        27               t> 27 .?t.S tJ. I) 11,.5 ,,,,,,,                                    ,?!'7/Jt> ii.¢             /}n      If(/
9-0llle,


I      Total
                             .7

                          /1.J       21
                                           z       5 2./ /.<I .7.!i.

                                                 /.,/O ltJ.-t l?..5 /al.
                                                                                             t.l

                                                                                           ~tJ           22,
                                                                                                             /)  ',/ ?. 9 c.?. t) .7.9 ,U.

                                                                                                                   lt>Z '19,// 21.1,                 /0,,,     114'
                                                                                                                                                                                 I~       41       .J.J'

                                                                                                                                                                              ,J/1 ltJn 11.'/' ??,t /tJtJ.
                                                                                                                                                                                                            ;./      4¥
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                  Number
                                               ll.17

                                           ~rfiL.
                                                        Percent                Nuniler           PerCmt
                                                                                                                    ,J::I✓/'?
                                                                                                                                                         ,SfGttff/1/G S:



                                                                                                                                                                              Nullmer
                                                                                                                                                                                           /9,/fi'
                                                                                                                                                                                             Per Cent                Numbl!r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                t.?<V.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Per Cail
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              dY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
         Evaluation
    0-S.lloon
    l•Asbonomical
    ?·Aircraft
                          Certain Doubtful Total Certain Dowllul Total Certain -Hui Total Certain Doubtful Total

                            17
                             ~
                           ,v,,
                                       /II
                                       II
                                                  .?I $1      ?'/ l!i. i
                                                   17 f / 5: I, R.,,
                                                   '11 M¥" /5:i .i'L.t.
                                                                                             0
                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                             '7.
                                                                                                                     tJ IJ.tJ tJ.t' t1.,:;
                                                                                                                    .f Jt/.1 2;',1, //2.f
                                                                                                                         I 11/.S                     1f(.1
                                                                                                                                                                ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Douhtfu Total certain IJoublful Total
                                                                                                                                                                      /
                                                                                                                                                                      /J
                                                                                                                                                                                  ,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                  t7        t7
                                                                                                                                                                                                I /( I

                                                                                                                                                                                            J j'.f.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                    /J /]
                                                                                                                                                                                                             /1/1

                                                                                                                                                                                                             11.6 0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                            /Z 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /I. I


                                                                                                                                                                                                                     f'I'.~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 :l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ?.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /    /J

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1'          t,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I     '1'7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LJ./ 21.I 1//..2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,:/ /S:~ /5J/ .!tJ.I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         t?./J    ?''1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                       .71                                                       I                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,.,:2
                                                                                                            ;?                              /1,/1                                   /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,,, ,, 11./J /J.
    3-Li&fill'li-.
    4--Birds
    5-Cloud~ Dus~ et~
                             v
                              I}
                                /J
                                           '},

                                           /J
                                           /J
                                                    I, ?/J 1./J f.lJ
                                                    /) /J./J IJ./, /} I}
                                                    I} ().t) /J.17 /J. /J                    t?
                                                                                                 /J
                                                                                                 /J         0
                                                                                                             /J


                                                                                                             t'J
                                                                                                                    t?
                                                                                                                     tJ
                                                                                                                     /?
                                                                                                                               /J.()
                                                                                                                               /)I)
                                                                                                                               ,..,_.,.,
                                                                                                                                            ~n
                                                                                                                                            17./J
                                                                                                                                            /J.IJ
                                                                                                                                                       n,:
                                                                                                                                                      n,,
                                                                                                                                                      /!,I}
                                                                                                                                                                      ;?
                                                                                                                                                                      ;?
                                                                                                                                                                          /



                                                                                                                                                                                  tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                    /)

                                                                                                                                                                                    ,';
                                                                                                                                                                                             I II./
                                                                                                                                                                                            17 /J.IJ
                                                                                                                                                                                            t)      /JA
                                                                                                                                                                                                            /J.t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                            /Jn
                                                                                                                                                                                                            /}/]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /I. I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       nn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /}

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /'7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         t:J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    t?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /,J     (l.lJ    ~-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                t1.IJ 4-tJ dtJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  tJ.,'.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
    6-lnsuffic."to.         d              0      Ii    ?.t              tJ.(l    9.2.       t7             CJ       tl        I}/)         /J,/J     /J.()          t?          tJ         tl      /},()   ,,, /J   t:7.IJ     IJ      /J          17          d.n t:1.t? 1217
                                                                                                                                                                                  ,,,
    l•Psydlololical
    l,lJnkno.,
    t-Olher
                            t1
                             9
                                 f

                                        I}
                                           I

                                           1
                                                    ;/ t 5
                                                  31 112'9 /J./J ;r.9
                                                  d, qi, J.5 /,,,I
                                                                        /),:;    2.tJ            /J
                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                 2.
                                                                                                            CJ
                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                            tJ
                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                     / /t/.J
                                                                                                                     t. 2K.t
                                                                                                                               IJ.I)       t!l.t)  tJ.tJ
                                                                                                                                            /J.1) /t/J
                                                                                                                                            IJ.0 ?i't.
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                     CJ
                                                                                                                                                                     I          J
                                                                                                                                                                                 CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                            t)

                                                                                                                                                                                            t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                    /J,/J   /} /)

                                                                                                                                                                                                   rJ.tJ IJ.t)
                                                                                                                                                                                            // 11./ .55.J //t/~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     "!n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /JI'}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /}

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                fl_

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        l'7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Z /5¢
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /J/1



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              J?.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      t).LJ LJ.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CJ.I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /1.,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 15'.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 l!.?.tl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
       Toi~               ;JI/ &,2- /91,                    /,,ff/I .7/t         IM.         5'             1.      1 1/4 2.~1, //JD.                                 I.        5           9 l&-£.1 .!f..! /PP.                £       5'          u t.1.5' .14'.5 /tJ().
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
         Evalualioo
    0-Balloon
                          Cert•• Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tola! ~ertain Doubtful Tola! Certain Doobllul Total
                              /
                                     -     /)
                                                 i?S.7
                                                       PerCmt


                                                        I   /17./J      /J.tJ
                                                                               Number


                                                                                 /tJ.O       /J
                                                                                                     PerCenl


                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                   11'9


                                                                                                                        tl./9 /J.O 10.n
                                                                                                                         /J
                                                                                                                                                               ...
                                                                                                                                                                 /I/
                                                                                                                                                                         Number
                                                                                                                                                                                            /95::Z..
                                                                                                                                                                                              Percent
                                                                                                                                                                     .;. Dowtful Total Certain Ooublful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certlin DoulJllul Toi~
                                                                                                                                                                                id         ?R       4/7      9.0 IJ?~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      N,_                   Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
    I-Astronomical
    2-Aucratt
    Hi&fill'h<nom.
    t-Birds
                             /}

                             I/
                             /J
                             /)
                                           /}

                                           I
                                           0
                                           0
                                                    0
                                                   /J
                                                        0    /1J?



                                                             tJ.tl tl./J
                                                             tJ.o
                                                                        17./J
                                                    .,,- /,l'tl,O I/J.t:J 1..-1.10
                                                                                  IJ,(J


                                                                                  /J.O
                                                                         O.u /J. /}
                                                                                                 /)

                                                                                                 ;?
                                                                                                 .,.,
                                                                                                 /)
                                                                                                            ;?

                                                                                                             /}

                                                                                                            ,,,
                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                     /) /J,/J t}. t? o.o
                                                                                                                     0 11.0 /J.tJ tJ.I)
                                                                                                                     /]

                                                                                                                    /J
                                                                                                                               /J,/J /}/J 11'7./l
                                                                                                                              /J./,1 /J./J CJ,/J
                                                                                                                                                                 ft'J
                                                                                                                                                                      fl_




                                                                                                                                                                       n
                                                                                                                                                                          , 2.'21
                                                                                                                                                                                 I,




                                                                                                                                                                                 (J
                                                                                                                                                                                          5x
                                                                                                                                                                                                   /.$
                                                                                                                                                                                               /9.// /{i' / .J?.5
                                                                                                                                                                                            !, /.9 1.1 .£2
                                                                                                                                                                                            17
                                                                                                                                                                                               f



                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,u,
                                                                                                                                                                                                             :n:;
                                                                                                                                                                                                              6..t



                                                                                                                                                                                                             /J./. t).n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
    5-Clouds, Dus~ et~

    6-lnsuffi~ "'"'·
                             /J
                             I         /J
                                           /}           0
                                                        I
                                                            0./J         /J./J
                                                             ,nn CJ.o 1/tJ.()
                                                                                 ~,,,            I?
                                                                                                 /J         0
                                                                                                             ,:J
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                     n        /J.O /J.o /} 0
                                                                                                                               /J.n        O.P        /J./J      l'1
                                                                                                                                                                      /J        0
                                                                                                                                                                                t:J
                                                                                                                                                                                            /J     IJ.0      /J.t; IJ.O
                                                                                                                                                                                           /1 /It? d.l.l 1/.l.l                                                                            I
- ,
    7-Psydloloa,cat          ,'J       0            t)       /J /J tUJ n.n                   /J             /J       19        /JO          /Jn      t).t)            .f          I         4 19 t1.I. 2.5
    a.Unkno..               2,.         0          z        'JJJ,IJ /J. /) i-?,?,;,              I          0        I        5(),0        /}.,J ,;I).()              ?,         0        .?/ 2()17 ~.,., :2/V



       Tolol
                             /         0

                                       I
                                                    /


                                                  //]
                                                            ,•'{J.{;    tJ. (J /o.o

                                                            ltJ./J /().(7 ,,,,,
                                                                                             /


                                                                                            :v            t)
                                                                                                            /,J      I        '51)./1


                                                                                                                   2, ltBJl(J t?. 17 IM
                                                                                                                                           IJ. tJ 5/J.ll

                                                                                                                                                                Jpt/
                                                                                                                                                                     </


                                                                                                                                                                               ',/
                                                                                                                                                                                  ;?       LI      2.1. ,?,I}

                                                                                                                                                                                          15'!, IL~/ 52.! /PO,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.t.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                           150
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
I
I
I   I
                            .z:d,W:


                                        Humbel
                                                         1/)f 4(..
                                                                       Per Cent
                                                                                 l;J/,,?L t//fr/(24(
                                                                                ,jl/lM4eL,


                                                                                                 Number
                                                                                                              CJ,F-
                                                                                                                             19./7
                                                                                                                                           -
                                                                                                                                          Per Cent                          Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                  141/i
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /9,'/9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Per Cent
    I


I           Evaluit1on         Certain, Doubtful          Total Certain Ooublful, Total icertain Doubtful                    Total Certain Doubtful Total            ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Ooobtful Total Certain Doubtful Tot~
    0-Balloon                                              ;1 .5':9 :? 7 I 1.. c                      I                         I S. t.           Cl t? S. L                                             9. I    /J. tJ fl        t}                    tJ /JtJ /J.t? tl.O
                                   ,,                                                                                                                                                              I                                        //
                                 //}           '7                                                                    0                                                 I             /)
    •·
    I-Aslronom1cal
      -·
                                           12              ;1 }'.t) ,.;     J..1..,               /J                n          (J       /J./J     /J tJ /J./J          a             :2.          :?     /JJJ /i'.,t v.f. .t       /        0          I   I. -t t?.d /,.,7
    2-Aircratt                  4-'",,     21             '11 //{ /} /tU, 1st                         I             0           I        J;'t     tl.tJ s.t.           2.            CJ            2, /f.,2      0.(J    li.t      /        J          ;/ ,(,y Mt? 2t..?


I   3-L•&hl Pttenom.
    4-Birds
    S-Clouds, Ousl etc.
                                   ~

                                   0
                                    4       $
                                           Ji'
                                           CJ
                                                          12, J.(,, 11
                                                          11
                                                            tJ /J/J
                                                                   :? I}
                                                                            t/7
                                                                              1/ .t;_/
                                                                             IJ.CJ J?. 11
                                                                                                  /J
                                                                                                      /J
                                                                                                      /J
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                     /1
                                                                                                                     ,!J
                                                                                                                               tJ
                                                                                                                               /J
                                                                                                                                         /J,I) 1'1.JJ
                                                                                                                                        /J.JJ JJ.t)
                                                                                                                               17 tl.tJ tJ,tJ t).IJ
                                                                                                                                                        /J.O
                                                                                                                                                           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                       /J


                                                                                                                                                                       /J
                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                     '7.
                                                                                                                                                                                     ~

                                                                                                                                                                                    tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                  :2,     t?.tJ 1r.t
                                                                                                                                                                                                  .? 9.1 12.t 12'7../
                                                                                                                                                                                                   tJ ~ I ,?./) ~ n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /f?.,t    /1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,;;-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ~

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /.1-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       i7 /1 /) ,?.O ,a,c,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ~tJ /,.. 7 -(,.?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          "i"' /J,t:J £it.:
    S-tnsuffic.-.fD.           .?</         tJ             1,/     /:',?
                                                                             IJ.tJ /./'.5         !,                I?         ~ 218 0./J 11K                         CJ             tJ           /)  JY.t? t:J.I) J?.J)                    t;)        S' h.t (?.() .!J'. ~


I   7-Psydl>lofcal
    8-Unkno..,
    9-0llle,
                                    /
                                  7'/)


                                 /.?
                                           _g
                                            a
                                               ?
                                                            ;/     JJ.1/
                                                          ;'t? j'f(/ ,,,,
                                                          /~ s:/ /J /{
                                                                             ;.Z, /.t.
                                                                                       'J,f.1/
                                                                                       :i'.?
                                                                                                  tJ
                                                                                                  7
                                                                                                  j                  I?
                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                        /)
                                                                                                                               I t?. (J 5. f, ,;, t,
                                                                                                                               7 -M.9 {J./J .-1_9
                                                                                                                               1        /1,,.7   (}./J     //,1
                                                                                                                                                                      0

                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                    I?

                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                    tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,J tl.O

                                                                                                                                                                                                   I 9.1 IJn
                                                                                                                                                                                                  /1
                                                                                                                                                                                                             11. 11

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    91
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,,, /J 0 tJ 0. {J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ..?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Cl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /    t7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I /..-, n. a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       J 17/1.0 a.o :?LJ. {J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IJ.t? t). tJ 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   "'·'


I           Total              tit         t,1 15!: :15.7 11..J /n,,                             11                  I        I! r✓I             5./4 /{}().          5             t.,          //      4"5.5 9/.s //]/).        //        4" 15 1t. 3 2t..7 l/1/J,




I   I
             Evaluation
                                       Number
                                                        1f.&:?!
                                                             Per Cent                Number                Per Cent
                                                                                                                              i~S/
                                                                                                                                   Nurrtier              Per Cent                Number
                               Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu
                                                                                                                                                                                                 /,?5:2,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PerCmt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Total Certain Owbtful Total
        ~Balloon                  2            0             £ 1?,5 IJ. /J t?.5                       ,:J                       C,       tJ.O 0./J         n.o            £,            1        /.1 J.2         .?.S     7.tl
                                               ,.,                                                                   I)



I       I-Astronomic.al
        2•Aircraft
    13-Lipt PhfflOm.
                                    /)


                                   I/
                                    t?      0
                                               I
                                                             tJ     ,'}J,

                                                            ,.,5 1~() L '? .JI .1
                                                                    J::/,
                                                                              /J /) /J /J


                                                                              /J, .0    "'I)
                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                      /)
                                                                                                          /
                                                                                                                    /?.

                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                        I      ,; /(I.{) .JCJ.JJ d,i,IJ
                                                                                                                               I 111.1) /}, 11 in.()
                                                                                                                               (J       tJ,O       .,,      /),,
                                                                                                                                                                      .1'1
                                                                                                                                                                           I

                                                                                                                                                                          .t,/
                                                                                                                                                                                   2.J'
                                                                                                                                                                                        7

                                                                                                                                                                                        L
                                                                                                                                                                                                 /A       /.£.
                                                                                                                                                                                                        /1,,/ .1~.~
                                                                                                                                                                                                 1./J :/(I.()
                                                                                                                                                                                                 10 2-t J'.2. S¢
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 J'.lf   5',¢



    ;4-Bnds                         /J      0                /J         IJ. IJ ,?.t
                                                                    t? tJ                         /7                I?         0        ,, I )
                                                                                                                                                  IJ. I)    /) 11      ✓                <         9 1.t 2. '7' ,/.7

I   !s-cloud~ Dus~ et~
    ls-1nsuffic.lnfo.
    !7-Psychologic.al
                                   ,J
                                   :?.
                                   0
                                            i?


                                            I?
                                               0            z
                                                             (J    0()  0/J /JO
                                                                  ti.!> /JO 112.5
                                                            tJ ,7_/) /),/) JJ. IJ                 17
                                                                                                      /)

                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                    a
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                               /J /J.O


                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                /       '"'.I)
                                                                                                                                         t)./J
                                                                                                                                                  /J. I) IJ. {J
                                                                                                                                                  11 I)

                                                                                                                                                  O.P
                                                                                                                                                            "·"
                                                                                                                                                            /}./)
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                     2J
                                                                                                                                                                       ,,;,
                                                                                                                                                                                    t7
                                                                                                                                                                                     I?

                                                                                                                                                                                    :t.
                                                                                                                                                                                                21
                                                                                                                                                                                                   (l      ,,,,tJ tJ.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                         0. tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                    1/. :J /J. (J //.:J
                                                                                                                                                                                                 2 J?.tJ /./ /.I
    18-Unkno'MI                                                                                                                .5' Jt),/,
                                    ,:;-    /)              5 .l/. 2- JJ 17 11.1.                 .5                                             /J,/} ?~/)          5'/            n           SI 27.5 (1.(J 12;(5

I
                                                                                                                    0
    9-0thei                         I      I                2, I. q L 1 11.1,                         I             /7         I        1/J /,   n. 11 l,nn            i'               I          9 4.J         //.<'    u.!

                                11/         z              It $1, 12.; /()/}.                         '1            s                   ~,,
           Total                                                                                                              II?                ?/J,{)
                                                                                                                                                           '""· IN 5'/ lfG 7:?.G 1'15 /(JIJ.
I   I
                                                        tU,f

                                                          '1"t:Jr.,11                                                         /l?',/7                                                           /9<,1~                                               /~,{/9
    I                                  Number                Per Cent                Number                PerCmt                  Nurrtier              Pe<Cent                 Number                                                                            Per Cent


I            Evaluation
        0.Batloon
        I-Astronomic.al
                               Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doimtful Total Certain Doobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu

                                   I
                                   ✓            f
                                                    I            2 /.5" /.5 .?tJ
                                                                 7 ,u ,/.5 IOI.
                                                                                                      /J
                                                                                                      /,J
                                                                                                                     n
                                                                                                                    ,,,         t?
                                                                                                                                   /;    ~,,
                                                                                                                                         /J.11
                                                                                                                                                  /)JJ

                                                                                                                                                  /l_/J
                                                                                                                                                            ,,.,,
                                                                                                                                                            /J.I)
                                                                                                                                                                        4
                                                                                                                                                                       /J
                                                                                                                                                                                        I?
                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                   (l

                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                          atJ     t).t) /J,O
                                                                                                                                                                                                      /J.IJ 15.0 :15.(J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   l'7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Total Certain Owbtful Total

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0 IJ./) ~-17 IJ. (l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tJ /J /J CJ. tJ tJ. t;
        2•Aircraft                .2.          L             $ 5CJ           9 I ;?,/                 {/            Cl          t7 (}./'          n,J?      /ln            /            /7         / 25:tJ O.n ts.o                0            /        I 11 n /?,,:; /~,,;

I       3-Light PhfflOm.
        4-Birds
        S-Clouds, Oust. etc.
                                   .?
                                   s
                                   /)
                                               CJ
                                                I
                                               /J
                                                             j     ,./.5     11. /J
                                                             ,/ lv.s- /.5' L.,t?
                                                             /J tJ. t? /J.tJ tJ. tJ
                                                                                       ./,5
                                                                                                  tJ
                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                      CJ        0
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                               ()
                                                                                                                                        ,.,,,,
                                                                                                                                        tJ.t)
                                                                                                                                        {).r:J
                                                                                                                                                  tJ.{l
                                                                                                                                                  /J.IJ /1n
                                                                                                                                                            tJ.O

                                                                                                                                                 ().tJ .,,,..,
                                                                                                                                                                       /7

                                                                                                                                                                       ;:)
                                                                                                                                                                          t?
                                                                                                                                                                                     t7


                                                                                                                                                                                     Cl
                                                                                                                                                                                        J?
                                                                                                                                                                                                  /J J?ll J?./) 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                  0 tJ.O 0.0 /J.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                  tJ /J,/J /J.t) 17,6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   J?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       JJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         b /J/l J?. J? tU>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2 25.o /J, /) 2!i.lJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0 ~,.,           ,,,_,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.6
        6-lnsuffic.-.fo.           ,f          t7             I? d./ /J. tJ it.I                  0             0              0        00       (}.tJ t?.11              /          0             I 25.0         /1/J ;?s.n      2-            0       '7 .15'./J /l /1 '7,;/)

I       7-Psycholoaical
        8-Unkno'MI
    9--0ther
                                  ...?
                                 2!>
                                  I(
                                                I
                                                Cl
                                                 /
                                                             ✓ ✓.!i
                                                           26' .1/.9
                                                             5     /./
                                                                              /.5
                                                                             t).(J

                                                                              1.5
                                                                                         ,(, t
                                                                                       .1'/.?
                                                                                         ·;:t,
                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                  //
                                                                                                  ,,,           0
                                                                                                                    I


                                                                                                                    t)
                                                                                                                               2. IL. -t II.. 1 fJ.1,1
                                                                                                                                4 1.1..'1 17. /J I.I.. 7
                                                                                                                               tJ tl.O /J.O 0./)
                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                       t7
                                                                                                                                                                           /         t7

                                                                                                                                                                                     t?
                                                                                                                                                                                        /7
                                                                                                                                                                                                  I 25.tJ /JO :!5./)
                                                                                                                                                                                                  tJ IJ. tJ 11. /) /JI)
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Cl ,,, I? tJ. (} /J.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /     r7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            C7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            t?          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I l.t.5 ..,~ /t,5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I   12.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                •7 "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /J/l

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /),/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  l?.!i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,t.s

I           Tot~                5.J        13             tt J'(J.3 ;</, 7' la'•                      s             I          t., 111 /1..1 /()IJ.                    3            I             ;/ I '1£-tJ 25.0 /p{J.          '1        /          I? 1.8'~ G l'l,5' //'VJ,




I            Evaluation
                                       r.,mbel
                                                        If' Si?
                                                             Per Cent
                               Certain Doubtful Tolal Certain Doubtful Total
                                                             0      .,,,,
                                                                                                        Number
                                                                                                                             /9!i'/
                                                                                                                              PerCenl
                                                                                                 ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                            Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                /9, Z-
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Percent                 Number                Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                     ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Ooobtful Total Certain Doubtful Tot~
        0-Balloon                                                            /J. /) /J, /)                                                                 tJ.,:>              I                   t ?.d 2.u .I.R
                                    /)           /7                                                   17                /7     J?       /4(?
                                                                                                                                                "'·"' IJ./)                                 /

I       I-Astronomical
        2-Aucratt
        H1jMPh-.
                                   0
                                    I


                                   /J
                                            /J
                                            tJ
                                               tJ
                                                            0
                                                             I

                                                            t?
                                                                   A'7?_/)

                                                                    tJc.)
                                                                   /J./J
                                                                             IJ.tJ l-"11,0
                                                                             n. ,1 /J. /)
                                                                         /J. /) /J.o
                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                      t7         tJ
                                                                                                                t7
                                                                                                                /7
                                                                                                                               /J

                                                                                                                               tJ
                                                                                                                               (J
                                                                                                                                        ,,,_,,, J?.i:J
                                                                                                                                        /),/}

                                                                                                                                        &tJ
                                                                                                                                                 (J,0 /J,(?
                                                                                                                                                 /J.O 11 /)
                                                                                                                                                                       J
                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                       ..1
                                                                                                                                                                                     5
                                                                                                                                                                                        2..


                                                                                                                                                                                        tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                  5

                                                                                                                                                                                                  .5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                     '1.3 ,; ~ 11.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                   it 2.(/ 12. t I</. t
                                                                                                                                                                                                          '1.J   (P.O   7.1
    4-Birds                        t)       0                      /l I) 0.0 I/J. O               0                 I          I  &o ~tl.C, '1/J.1                         /            /7         I     vi tJ.(1      :?,,/


I
                                                            /)
        S-Clouds, Oust, etc.       /)       0               n       ,J :; J?./J        "7.tJ          t?            /7         JJ /?.t) J?. t:, /), /)                 Cl            0             J'J   O.tl    tJ.tJ tJ.()
        6-lnStJffic. •to.           11     0                 /)    C/IJ      l?,/J l?./J              /         0              I 2tl. tJ t1. tJ :M.tJ                  4"            0             ,/ f,f?       /J. tJ ~8'
        7-Psycto~pCII              /J       /)               11     /}. 0 /J./J lo.n              C             t?            ,,,       ,,,,/)   tJ.O /J.O             t?               0          ,,,   /).CJ   d.t? tJ,P
        1-Unkno..,                  ,      /J                I     •S7711 / ) /) 50./.            '7            tJ            t,        U/1~     (J tJ     sl/J.JJ   /'7'           0            I 'f ti/.~ 11.(;J 1/1.£


I   9-01111<


           T~
                                  0

                                 1,
                                           /)




                                           /J
                                                           a

                                                           !].
                                                                    A/J /), J? o. /)


                                                                  Voo.o ().(} !Oil                4
                                                                                                   I

                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                    /)
                                                                                                                               '
                                                                                                                                        ..,,tJ


                                                                                                                              s i~.6 1&0 /PO.
                                                                                                                                                  //, I)   '7(J.tl    2,


                                                                                                                                                                      ..?t
                                                                                                                                                                                    /

                                                                                                                                                                                        9
                                                                                                                                                                                                   f  ,/,1 2.✓ '1.?


                                                                                                                                                                                                 I(/ 1-tKO 12.o ;tJ;,.



I                                                                                                                                             151

I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                              ALL         ~Al<

                                                      Per Cent
                                                                             11///AA; ',:-,,



                                                                                                Number
                                                                                                          !C"         ?l ·,c,,,rs
                                                                                                               /(2,/-;,
                                                                                                                     Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                                                                      iE".t'   S/6,
                                                                                                                                                                         d,;//"
                                                                                                                                                                   Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                               T//J/G         ,II.

                                                                                                                                                                                           Nun>er
                                                                                                                                                                                                         ~           t:?r

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  :.;~ .rs 11/t?,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /.~"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5',          -   I
                                Number
!

,.
        EYlluahon
!0-e.11000
.l-Ast10111111C1I
!2-Aircrlft
                        CertJo, Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total


                           //
                              ..7             I
                                              /
                                                    ,/ /,!, 2.2. i 7
                                                  /1,.
                                                    5
                                                          21.9 -?.2. I ?t,.,
                                                                 f(r I ,/J ~
                                                                                         ertain Doubtful Total certa, Doubtful Total Certain Doubllul Total Certain Doubtful Total eert,i, o... btruI Tolal Certain Doubtful Total


                                                                                          ,,,
                                                                                          ,,,
                                                                                               /


                                                                                                   ,?
                                                                                                     ,?
                                                                                                         ,,,      I .1JJ
                                                                                                                 I)     .,, /J

                                                                                                                 tl /) /J
                                                                                                                                   /J /)   h.1
                                                                                                                                  /J. /J -<! "
                                                                                                                                  /J. ()   /7./J
                                                                                                                                                         /,
                                                                                                                                                        ,?
                                                                                                                                                        ,,,
                                                                                                                                                                /)



                                                                                                                                                                ,?
                                                                                                                                                                    /
                                                                                                                                                                          cl
                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                          J'J
                                                                                                                                                                                   /)/)    /J. /,
                                                                                                                                                                                   ,,,, "rt) 2.50
                                                                                                                                                                                  /1_,? 1/J.o n_/'J
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ;?_,;

                                                                                                                                                                                                             ?
                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /J          /)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                            t7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    t, lu,,_1,1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     tl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           "-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /}.f)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /J.I')
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /J.I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /J./J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /J.,';
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              14'.i.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /J, /;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                              ?          2                 /_,:C

:1-L,;,1 PINnoa,.             2.          I         .Jl./:J          '1,,2
                                                                               ,,,_,,.
                                                                                          Cl       /1            I?    ,, 17

                                                                                                                 ,., 4tJ ,,,.,
                                                                                                                                  /J. tJ   /J,.,        tJ      /
                                                                                                                                                               ·i?
                                                                                                                                                                         ',I      ,,,_,., 25-tJ ?,co         /1              /J      /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           tJ.t)    at          /J.I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
      _
4-Birds                    _?                       3     to 5' /J. ()         /,-£;      /}       t:J                                      /JJ;       ,? .              /)       C/.o     /J/1              ,?             0              ll.(J.   /), t)      0.()

S-Cloods, Dus~ et~            /,
                                         /)

                                         0          0      /J.O      ,, /J      /J.()     /J       t?            tJ    tJ.tl      /Jn       ,,,,        ,,,     t?       ()       /J_/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                     n.l)
                                                                                                                                                                                           ,.,_,., 1,-,_tJ   tl             /1       ,., /J.t) 0./J tJ.            I}

                                                                                                   t7            t, IU.?' ,?_£) 1,,_,.                  ?.               11. IA"O.t.                 rA,     ?              /J       ?_   4/J.{)     {). t) 1~-0
 ~lnsulli~ •1>.           //             I?        //     2H         i'J. t:J 21. 9       2.,                                                                    tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                           ""·"
..
 7-Psydlolo~cal


 ~
                          Cl
                          :;-
                          :z
                                         0
                                          /


                                         ()
                                                    I /J. ~
                                                    ,; ;/J. (J
                                                   z u., "· ,1 ,u tJ
                                                                      ?. 2
                                                                     (J. p
                                                                                ?.t
                                                                                ,,, Q
                                                                                          /J
                                                                                          ,::1
                                                                                                   /)

                                                                                                   /1
                                                                                                   ,P
                                                                                                                /J
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                 /1    /J.t)
                                                                                                                       ,fl.(J
                                                                                                                        /Jn
                                                                                                                                  0. p
                                                                                                                                  0./J (7.17
                                                                                                                                  /J_ tJ
                                                                                                                                           /J,,



                                                                                                                                           /Jn
                                                                                                                                                       17
                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                t)
                                                                                                                                                                /J

                                                                                                                                                                /)
                                                                                                                                                                         /}       /1, /;
                                                                                                                                                                         0 "'-0 tJ.,.,
                                                                                                                                                                         CJ I /J. I? /J.t)
                                                                                                                                                                                           /1.t? "-/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                     /J_t)

                                                                                                                                                                                                     /)_/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                             /J



                                                                                                                                                                                                             /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                            t7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /J

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,,,,_IJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /1_/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /1. /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0./)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0. I}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                l'J. 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               t1u.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
       Total            ✓o                t       f"t.    g7.p l?.tJ /PO.                .3        ()           .3 /l)p.t)        tJ.tJ //10.         :z       :Z        ✓ 5().l 5~.o /{JO.                  5              /J       ,_ l/011 /I o.o 1/011.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
I
I Evaluation
i
                                       Number
                                                   /I?,"
                                                      Percent                 Number                 Per Cent
                                                                                                                 /12


                        Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tolal Certain Doll>tful Tolal Certain 0...btlul Tolal
                                                             ..,,,
                                                                                                                        1/
                                                                                                                                                              NullDer
                                                                                                                                                                         /t2C2,
                                                                                                                                                                                    Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                                                                      ertain lloobtful Tolal Certain Doll>llul Total Certa, Doubtfu
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ~,,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PerC<nt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Total Cerbin lloobtlul Totol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                        2,
IO-Balloon                                                                                                              /J./)
                                                                                                                                                                ,,, .J'r; 290
                                                                                                                                                                          t,.5 ..1..2.
                              /}          /1         tl               /J.,;     /J /J       /}       ,?           /J               /'J.tJ 0,0                       I
!1-Astrooomical
i2-Aircrafl
;~·Li&hlPl'lenom.
                              /'J


                              0
                                  .,      /J
                                          17
                                             /J
                                                    ,,
                                                    /J


                                                    /)
                                                            /) tJ
                                                           /} /',

                                                           /J_/J
                                                                      17.b tl.O
                                                                      /J Cl
                                                                      /J./) ,? 0
                                                                                 /J.o
                                                                                           /)

                                                                                            /J
                                                                                           I?
                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                     /}

                                                                                                    !?
                                                                                                                 /J
                                                                                                                 n
                                                                                                                        ,,_,,, /1_ /J l?.O
                                                                                                                        ,?,I?
                                                                                                                 /J It?. t7
                                                                                                                                  n.lJ n."
                                                                                                                                  ,?CJ     /J_/
                                                                                                                                                        r;


                                                                                                                                                        ?
                                                                                                                                                           ?    ~
                                                                                                                                                                /}
                                                                                                                                                                          5       ?.?
                                                                                                                                                                                       1~t1/J,,,

                                                                                                                                                                                           I..G 111...z
                                                                                                                                                                          :z 11.5 /7,I? 1£..§
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
    4-Buds                                                           0. /}                                                                      ,.,    .J'      .,,       g        4_'?    tJ. tJ 1/.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                              0           /}         /}     /1_/;              /10         /)       /1           /J     O.t:J     /'J.Cl   /)

15-Clouds, Dus~ etc.                                                                                17                 ln.lJ
                              /J          /}        0       /J./J     /)/)
                                                                                /20       tJ                     ,?               /1. /. /?,/)          !?      /1        /}      /J./J    /'J./,J /J.n
    6--lnsuffic.lnfo.         /)          /}        /}     /J. Cl     ().!?     tJ. Cl     ?.       t.J         t.     't)!J.t)    /J./;7 10.,.,        .J'         /7        ?    q_-1     /1.tl    t?_-t
~7-Psycholo11cal              /}          /}        0      /J.1'      ~,, t}_I')           Cl       /) ,., OJ'. /J./7 (J./'J                             /}         /         /   tJ. t) .7.? ?.Z
18-Unkno""                                          p                                               t? n ,,., "·.,,            d                                ,,       ,/ ,       ....
                                                                                                                                                                                  /J_/7 ;Z-9


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                              0           17                tJ./J     /1,?      ~,;       /J                                                A~




19--0111.,                    I          /)         I     //1'}./,    /JO IMA.O            /J       /) /J  ,,,., ,,,,., ,..,,, /                                0        /' 2..Z. /J.0 .!.Z
I
        Total             I              0          I     /t),?.t    /) /J
                                                                               '""·       t.         0          ?.     Wot         p./1 /OP.          21        ¢' .V t7rl J               ,1.0 J()ll.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                  152
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
I
I
I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -
                                                                           llt.L           /,e-#.e~




I           Enlation
    IH!11lloao
        l•AstKlnl:Nlical
                                s
                                  1
                                           -
                                      S&CJJNO.'r AHP ,1.flJ'



                                       7 IP o., /.t. 13 3
                                                            Per Cent



                               /1/J /fJ 28/, JV 3:l. 7 (f.'I #II
                                                                                   1.,-/()
                                                                                   Number
                                                                                              S£t!t7AIJ15
                                                                                                        Per Cent                Number               PerCeot
                               Certain Doubtful Tobi Certain Doubtful Tobi ~ertain Ooubllul Tobi Certain Doubtful Total ~ertain Doubtful Tobi Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tobi Certain Doubtful Tota
                                                                                                         $
                                                                                                       28 7i 1t 3
                                                                                                                  8 /8 3. 0 lf.8
                                                                                                                                  ,,.a
                                                                                                                            t; J. I lit
                                                                                                                                             Sb"D.,PS



                                                                                                                                                   i
                                                                                                                                                             //-3t?

                                                                                                                                                               11
                                                                                                                                                              I 7
                                                                                                                                                                            I 'I
                                                                                                                                                                            n
                                                                                                                                                                             -::I/- 6() S4cowps
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Per Cent

                                                                                                                                                                                       'U I/.,; 7. I
                                                                                                                                                                                      17. '+ (.'f :211
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     'f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    If
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I (I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     20 'I. t S.? /0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     25" 7. 7 !. I nil
                                 28 3. fl 5& C't ('I !U 1..,                                           I Jj 38 l'f.'f i.'I 128                                                                                                   ;u 71 If.'! //.?. 3/. /
        2-Aucnft
                                                                                                                                                  '" :u;z 813 0.11 0 8 /.'1. 'Jr0     /1-'f t}I, 3/.0


I   Hilllll'llenoa.



     _
                                  1
                                            ' i        f- O 5 0 ,; I.O                         I        Jf   ~ o. t 2.'I 3. 0
                                                                                                                         o.,
                                                                                                                                     /                                                                                            1. 2 0. 0 /. 0 I. 0




    ._
    4-Bilds                       1         'f        fl q5 0 'I /. 'f                         I         I   l        Q. I, ,.i       I                        I             2 0.'f                U,1.f    0-i      6,           I          7       1./     o. 5 1.,
                                                                                                                                                                z
    .......
    H!Oldl,Dast,etc.
                           _
                                !'I
                                   I           I   "-l 0.2 O.lf
                                            () If 'f.3 0, 0 f. 3                             q
                                                                                              0         0
                                                                                                         q
                                                                                                             D 0, 0 0.0 0.0 (I
                                                                                                                5.4 0.0 f.Jt /{,                                t7
                                                                                                                                                                             2 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                            It,
                                                                                                                                                                                               O.i 1).8
                                                                                                                                                                                           t.o () p t.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0  13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              t7 0. 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,.,     (/_0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             O.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    d.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,.e,

I   :1-l'lydlolo&iCII            2
                                19
                                            0
                                           (7
                                                        :l o.5
                                                      Jf 8.'
                                                                           Oo o. 5 fl
                                                                           0.0 gr, 11
                                                                                                                  '
                                                                                                         0 0 0.0 0.0 O.~ ~
                                                                                                         0 3 / Jf.6 0.0 13-'                      n
                                                                                                                                                                   3
                                                                                                                                                                   a f~ 21./
                                                                                                                                                                                B /.'I             I/ 1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                   O.P     no /. I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2             t7 l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0     (I 3/./
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /. 0    0.1)  /. u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IJ() 31. (
    9-0tllor                     I0        3          /'3 :n               o. 7 3.0           'l         0 2. /. 2 O.tJ /. i f                                  'I          /'I l'f H· f 3                           1             'J       s       /. 5     /. 0 ;i.5

                                                                                                                                                                           J,5 ,,,_,
I   I       Tobi               '11( 'J tfH '117 i;i 7.i                   'tH I 10. /IS f2                     I ,7      ,M 3/./ I JO. 183                    12                                   30.' /1/0. 11;/i lf6 1f, 7S.5 ']lf.'S IIO.




I            Enluation
        11-Blllloon
                               6'/ S£cp,vos -.S-~NvrF:S
                                       Number                Per Cent
                                                                                                     - - -
                                                                                                     t - .i't7 /11/A'VTES
                               Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tobi Certllin Doubtful Total Cerlaill
                                H          'r-3 108 12.                    !5 11.J           tr:J       -,;o
                                                                                                             PerCeot

                                                                                                                //I) I{. I,
                                                                                                                                         Tollll
                                                                                                                                   II. 0 2t.t 112.
                                                                                                                                                             /?,,,,..,. .?, 7
                                                                                                                                                                              Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                            ,M/~f/T,liS

                                                                                                                                                                                                     llulllber
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A/,,r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PerC..t
                                                                                                                                                  ,enain Doubtful Tobi Certain Doubtful Tobi Certain Doubtfu Total Certain DoubtlJI Tota
                                                                                                                                                                n           off· 16. r if-8 21.7 J'f 3 J. 'I/ ,. 'f 1.8 /0. 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <r~y,e-o




I       1-A-iCllt
        l•Aircnlt
                                 /I
                                77
                                           I t, -:l 7 -;;.1
                                           {,/        IJB 1n. 17.f) n2
                                                                            3. I

                                                                            P.O ?1
                                                                                     fJ     11'1.
                                                                                             1,1 ◄
                                                                                                        /'j      /.,(J   8.2
                                                                                                        L3 l!Ph f 'J /1, 0 ~0.2 !'3
                                                                                                          L ::11 1.9 I. I J. p I
                                                                                                                                    3.2 II I/ 37                17
                                                                                                                                                                IS

                                                                                                                                                                   <
                                                                                                                                                                            H /'f.'I 1.8 11.7 /37 '13 130 /t,./ /0, 11 n.o
                                                                                                                                                                            2.8 fl t.o /J.1 §It- If f 13 3 9-'I S.B /$. 7
                                                                                                                                                                                 a I+ O.B 1.1 ~
        Hi&f,tPh-.
        4-Birds
                                  7
                                    I
                                            If
                                               0
                                                       ti
                                                           I
                                                                  /.If
                                                                 0. ';/    0.0 0 '2.
                                                                                              J5
                                                                                               ~          I I            u
                                                                                                                      0. 2 o. 7 7                                  (J            ''
                                                                                                                                                                                 '· 'J 0. 0 1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                   f
                                                                                                                                                                                                       i
                                                                                                                                                                                                       '.l.
                                                                                                                                                                                                             7 Q.'    o. 2 0-~
                                                                                                                                                                                                             7 o. {, o. 2 o.B

I       ~loud~ Dus~ et~
        6-lnsuffic. mto.
        7-Psydlolopal
                                  I
                                i'-1'
                                  c;       f
                                            7
                                           (J
                                                       (J        0 2.
                                                 If 't f. 7 0 0 8-7 ,:zQ
                                                   9 /. () ().{/ J.e JI
                                                                            l.'t /. I,        .?         ~




                                                                                                         ~
                                                                                                               ( ot
                                                                                                         j '31 7.,,
                                                                                                                      O.li /. 0 If-
                                                                                                                      o.n 7-lf t$'
                                                                                                             // 2.1 O.I) -:;. I r
                                                                                                                                                                   II
                                                                                                                                                                   ()

                                                                                                                                                                   (
                                                                                                                                                                             II /.l ().0 /.(,
                                                                                                                                                                            H t. () n. ~ t.P /1/1
                                                                                                                                                                             {,  VJ 0.11- ✓-'I·
                                                                                                                                                                                                   3 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                   B    ?
                                                                                                                                                                                                              'f 0.1/ o.) 0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                         0 /f'J lt.B o. a lt.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,o 0. 'I o. ~ /. I
                                               0 i n 17 (, 0. 0 27.1, IJ9                               o !It? nG 0.0 1H (.(.                                      I        ((, ,t.', O.P 1t.5 1/7,     (/ 177 2H o. I) U.8

I
        8-Unkno•                / If I
    9-0lller                     19        3          :12 3. 7             o., '-f. '3       ;,;,        9 ~j 3. 0 /. 7 /./-. 7 13                              1            3             n       ,.1 t.J;         /(II                    so      f~       o. 7 f,'I
            Totlll             370 tJB fdP 7U 27.'l /IP. ",71 JO,                                              ,...,,., 7/1.'f 2'!.• /PO.         ,,,          50 21/9 79.'! 20./ /OJ.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ''5 18 8S'2        7             78.)     :ur JDD.

I                                ,S-Jlf'"C,,,YP.5              ~tY,I      LESS                      6-/t? Seco,v175                                          II -.J't?           5~t:CAl£)S                                     3/-6C J'cCM'LJJ


I
                                       Number                Per Cent               Number                PerC..I                 Nuater                Pe,Cent                 Number                                                                   PerC..t
             Evaluation        Certain Doobtful Total Certain Doubtful Tobi Certain Doubtfu Total Certllin Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu                                                     Total Certain Doubtful Total
        11-Blllloon                0            0      /}         O.P      O.D      o.u        /J        0        tJ      /)I)      tJ) ,11!         I             0             I         0       0./J     (.]      tJ               /)       tJ     o.n  (J_{) aP
        l•Astiononlical           q             I     I~         81.B '1./ 10.'f              6         ,z_        ff    ~o $0 /tM./J               If             0        'I- 15.O               Q./)    ?!.d     .2..              I         ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                J.5.0 I].~ j?.!
        2•Aircraft                0        0           ll         u n., O. I                   £)       C)         CJ     /J.u     IJ.tJ t'){J     0                   I      I  o,P               ,.:i     n        I!}              I       I P. O JH IJ.S

I       3-Li&f'lt Phenoa.
        4-Birds
        ~loud~ Dust, etc.
                                  0
                                  0
                                  {I
                                            0
                                            0
                                            0
                                                       a o.o o.o
                                                       0
                                                       0
                                                                  Q.0
                                                                  0,0
                                                                            0.0
                                                                            0.1
                                                                                    o. 0
                                                                                    o. n
                                                                                    o. 0      J
                                                                                               /)
                                                                                               f)
                                                                                                         tJ
                                                                                                        ;J
                                                                                                         /)
                                                                                                                   CJ
                                                                                                                  ;)
                                                                                                                 /,)
                                                                                                                          tJ.{)
                                                                                                                          t7I)
                                                                                                                          {J.{)
                                                                                                                                   ,:J,O tJ.{)
                                                                                                                                    /'J./ fJ.t
                                                                                                                                    ~t ,:Jt
                                                                                                                                                    (}

                                                                                                                                                    Q
                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                   0         0
                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                            0 o.n
                                                                                                                                                                                           o.,
                                                                                                                                                                                           q.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,., o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                       o.o o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                       o.o o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      l)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,,;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       O.I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     p.(J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            o. 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Q.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0. 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,. p
        6-lnsuff,c.klfo.          tJ       ()          ()         o.o       O.P     00 0                 /)      /}       ,1/J     (/~ l{/J            2        0           °A Jt5                     o.o IH                          n      ,,;    o.o            O.il

I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         t'..                                1).0
        7:Psydlolo~al             0            0       0          0.0       0.0 o.o           0          I) 0              Ol      ~o [).{)            p           I         I             0.0     c.2      ,. z      ~               A       I)     o.O     Q.O    Q.O
                                  ()           0                  o.O       00 o.o            0          t, 0                      ~o t?./) t                  0            t          n.fi                315                                t/ ,o. 0 o.o so.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                            u ,,,"
        11-Unlulo•                                     0                                                                   lln                                                                     1.0                                /,
    9-0lller                        I       0          I         9. I       00 f./            0          (,       u       ,1.{;    t?.O tNJ         I           0            I         C.'2        n.o                             /J         b 0.0 o./1 no


I           Totlll              /(}        I          II         91.1      '-1      Ill,      6          ?        'i? 7S-:tJ ,:isc, ltlf. I if                  :2          1{,            87.5 n-s /00.             (p            ..:,       fl 1$'.0       75'.0 /01,




I            Enluation
                                6/0FCMDS

                                           -                      ,S-Af,wtlTFS'
                                                            t"etCenl
                               Certain 00.btful Tobi Certain Doubtful Tobi
                                                                                                    /;- _,,
                                                                                                   N1111be1
                                                                                                                   ,-,,1ilfll1£S
                                                                                                                         Per Cent
                                                                                            ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                          o.n
                                                                                                                                                         Number
                                                                                                                                                               IJUPA

                                                                                                                                                                               Percent
                                                                                                                                                                                           '7/1   ,A       .~cs
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I/or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Percent
                                                                                                                                                  ertain Doubtful Total certain Doubllul Total Certain Doubllul Tobi Certain Doubtful Tola
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <r11re:o


        11-Bolloon                 ~           /;      -< 20.0             0.0     1!1.0      ,1         /)        ~     0,(1     o.o                                                                                ¥'               ,1      y      U? o.o (,8

I       1-AslJDnoolic:al
        2-Airtrlft
        Hilllll'llenoa.
                                  ~
                                      /)

                                       I
                                               t)
                                                I',
                                                ,:)
                                                       (;1

                                                       "
                                                       /
                                                                  OD
                                                                 Oil
                                                                /0, 0
                                                                           0.0
                                                                           o.o
                                                                           /JO
                                                                                    q_o
                                                                                    Q.O
                                                                                   /0. 0
                                                                                              ,,,
                                                                                              C)

                                                                                              /1
                                                                                                         /)

                                                                                                         /?
                                                                                                         ()
                                                                                                                  {/
                                                                                                                   {) Q.q
                                                                                                                   (J
                                                                                                                         O.o
                                                                                                                         o.o
                                                                                                                                  0.0
                                                                                                                                  0.1
                                                                                                                                  0./J
                                                                                                                                          0.0
                                                                                                                                          b.Q
                                                                                                                                          O.Q                                               ?.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I/

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      \I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      "/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A< ;B.'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             :7      3.f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             t.8 ')f.1/-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OP 3. If
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ()(l   /. 7
        4--Bifds                                       d         Q,Q       00       o.o                  /,       /)     o.o      0.0     0.0                                         .\                                           17         tJ     o.o     Otl    o. 0

I
                                      II        /J                                            /I                                                                                                                     //
        $-Clouds,Dust,et~          tJ           ,1     0         Q.O       o.o     Q.0       (i          ,.,       d o.o 0.0              0.0            ,                  {\                                       ,1               /:     t1      0.0     oo     o. 0

          __                                           ~ 10.0                                                      j (0 O o.o            ,o.o                                                                                                       1/. 'I
                                                                                                                                                                            V
        6--ic. llllo.             ~            ,:J                         O.o     :/0.0      ~          ;;                                                                                                           'i              tJ     7               ()0    II.if
                                                                                                                                                                       '

    -
                                                                                                                         0,0
        ._7-l'lydlolo&iCII
                                  ✓
                                   II
                                               t)
                                                       (/ o.o
                                                " t/ tfO.O
                                                                           Q,O   0.11
                                                                           00 ! 1/00         ~
                                                                                              ,1         /)
                                                                                                         Q
                                                                                                                   /)
                                                                                                                   :l lfO.O
                                                                                                                                  0.1
                                                                                                                                  0.0
                                                                                                                                          0. 0
                                                                                                                                         lfD.O
                                                                                                                                                                       '                                              '3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /_,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,I      9 5.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /.:?. :JQ.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /.7 t.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0 I) ')0.3

I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  17
                                   /        0          I         /P.O      0.0 no             Cl         0        ()     o.o      Q.O    o.o                                                                        /~             /',       / ~ ,1.,         00 13 7

           Total                Id          tJ /{) JoP.                    o. 0 /QO,         ,S         IJ       .f /00.0          o.o /00.                                                                         ,rs,           ,( _,:-,; 5'1.5           !. $ /dp


I                                                                                                                               153

I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                             EJ/,,fLv'/IT//JA(
                                                                             dflfl                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                            -
                                   5 srco,vps                            AIYP LeSJ                      C-N)                 SlcC/!IVPS                               //-.J',::J
                                                                                                                                                                              5£eoll/LJ5                             ~, 5£t!OAILJS     :JI
                                                          PerCml                   Number                Per Cent                                                     Number          Per Cent              Number               Per Cent
I
      Ewaluabon
10.ea11oon
-----
    l•Astronom1cal
                            Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tolal !Certain Doubtful Tolal Certain Doubtful Tolal
                                   /
                                   L
                                             .:2
                                            //          /7
                                                         ~
                                                          3 '} 'f 5 'l
                                                                   /1.& 17-'f fO/)
                                                                   r, IJ.0 f":'/
                                                                                   /'j      0
                                                                                             t/
                                                                                            ti
                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                         .2
                                                                                                         p
                                                                                                                    I o.o f.(, S./,
                                                                                                                    ':i.,...; //./ ?U
                                                                                                                   (I    P.O P.O ().O
                                                                                                                                                         ertain Doubtful Tolal Certain Doubtful Total Cemin Dwbllul Tola! Certain Doubtful Tola
                                                                                                                                                         {l
                                                                                                                                                           /)
                                                                                                                                                              /
                                                                                                                                                                            'T
                                                                                                                                                                             /           I
                                                                                                                                                                                         /
                                                                                                                                                                                          ~     0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                               (J
                                                                                                                                                                                                        It.- l&-7
                                                                                                                                                                                               o. n 6- 3 t-3
                                                                                                                                                                                                        C'.tl 1.?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           :3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       cJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,=!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,.   /)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,u 0-f {P.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Q.I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             n_, o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
    l•Ancraft
    .....                      .2            0                                                                                                                              /J
                                                                                                                              o.o -:/J:J. n~
i3-Light Pflenom.
4•Bnds
    5-Clouds. Oust. etc.
                               /
                               /
                                   tJ
                                             (1
                                              0
                                              /,
                                                          I
                                                         /)
                                                             I     ,_,

                                                                   1.i
                                                                   o.o
                                                                           0.IJ
                                                                           o. 0
                                                                           O.p
                                                                                  ,.'(
                                                                                  :u
                                                                                  PO
                                                                                            ()
                                                                                            /J
                                                                                            /J
                                                                                                         c/
                                                                                                        ,,
                                                                                                         /J
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                     y

                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                              o.O
                                                                                                                              P.P
                                                                                                                                        Q.I
                                                                                                                                        (J.P
                                                                                                                                                 .-?.O
                                                                                                                                                 ().0
                                                                                                                                                           {l
                                                                                                                                                           t?
                                                                                                                                                              /J
                                                                                                                                                                             /
                                                                                                                                                                            /2
                                                                                                                                                                             ,1
                                                                                                                                                                                      /

                                                                                                                                                                                      l'f
                                                                                                                                                                                         ~
                                                                                                                                                                                               0.11
                                                                                                                                                                                                O.Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                v.o
                                                                                                                                                                                               00 0-P
                                                                                                                                                                                                        8.'3 i-3
                                                                                                                                                                                                        o.P o.o            ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   "1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               p.P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              n.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Q.()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            o.P (}_D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             q.Q (/,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
    6-lnsuffit.    "'°·        .2             (}        2          H       O.P f.9           J          0           / H                 Q.P f{,               I              C)      /         00 9.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                e.3                         /            t:!       /         ')[), (J.       oP ~P.P
    7-P>ydDlo&ical
    1-l)mlo•
    ~   ....
                                A


                               /l
                                   ?
                                              ,...,
                                              /)
                                              I
                                                         /}

                                                         ? ,O./,
                                                          I o.u
                                                                   QI)     0.0    00
                                                                           0. D 10.,
                                                                            •.9 2"1
                                                                                            C)
                                                                                             (,
                                                                                             /J
                                                                                                         rl
                                                                                                         Cl
                                                                                                         /I
                                                                                                                   ()
                                                                                                                     b·,n.3
                                                                                                                     if
                                                                                                                              OJI

                                                                                                                              0.0
                                                                                                                                        0.0
                                                                                                                                        O,P
                                                                                                                                       o_p
                                                                                                                                                 J.()
                                                                                                                                                JJ.J
                                                                                                                                                 P.O
                                                                                                                                                           /J
                                                                                                                                                          .s
                                                                                                                                                           ,1
                                                                                                                                                                             cl
                                                                                                                                                                             ,...,
                                                                                                                                                                             .,
                                                                                                                                                                                      ,1 (J.0


                                                                                                                                                                                       I g_q
                                                                                                                                                                                               H o.D
                                                                                                                                                                                      ,s 1//-7 0.0 J/i. 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                    8.3 n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        c)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Q_(/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ']0.()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            tJ.P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            O.(J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,.P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    no
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
        Total                :l/J           /~ N-                  ;~e i/J.2 t,q_ //                     'J Ii 6/.) 18. o/ //)0.                           ?                .j       /~        !f.i 'f/.i /Pq_             ,(            J{            ,(    //JO.O (/. p /(JP,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
          Enl-
    0-S,lloon
                              6'1 $;;:co,vas

                                            -            PerC,nl
                                                                   S /1-h,vvTE..<
                             Cemi• Doubtful Tola! Certain Doubllul Total
                                    I         ,;              (.7 2,.1 JJ.if
                                                             {'.
                                                                                                  N..,t,er


                                                                                                '.3
                                                                                                      b-""

                                                                                                          $'
                                                                                                                          ~ .vv---
                                                                                                                        Per Cent
                                                                                           ertain Doublfu1 Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                         R l].0 2/. 7 J~./
                                                                                                                                                                  Ovtc 3,::!J --,.,ur.--
                                                                                                                                                                Nu-


                                                                                                                                                                            /J
                                                                                                                                                                                      Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                         ertain Doubtful Tola! Certain Doubllul Total Cemin Dwlrlful Total Certain Doubtful Toi~

                                                                                                                                                              6                       (, 50.0 o. 0 JO)
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Number


                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      11/4r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PerCenl


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        , ::, v
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1-,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '17,-r_,,n


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               7.0  7.P 11/.P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
     1-Astlonollical
     2-Aircrlfl:
    3-LiplPlleooa.
                                   /
                                    ~
                                   C)
                                             ,:2..

                                              /')
                                                 I
                                                        '"3   (.7 /1~ WP
                                                         I/ ':10.0 0 ']&-7
                                                         0 0.0 u. 0 o.o
                                                                                             7
                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                             /
                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                         If 30-lf 1/. J J't-7
                                                                                                                         ? lf.3         -n
                                                                                                                                        i.,
                                                                                                                         I J/.3 o., ?'- 3                  /J
                                                                                                                                                              </
                                                                                                                                                                  /
                                                                                                                                                                             /)
                                                                                                                                                                             (J
                                                                                                                                                                             11
                                                                                                                                                                                      c../ 33.J 0.1 33.'}
                                                                                                                                                                                     / 8.3 0.1 8-3
                                                                                                                                                                                     0 Q.I e_(I o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /.,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           tJ            /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ""i          Q 5.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I o. 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              lt-3 :lH II/_'/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3,S"   .,_ 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             J.'.? /.1.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
    4-Birds                        CJ            l'1     t'J        o.o     u      o.O       /J              I           J o.o If. '3 ¥-3                     /}             0       7 a., VJ r.l                               I       .;?             ::3 /. '.l.          ~-3 3.5
    5-Clouds, Dus~ et,
l~t-i,11111.
    7-P>ydlllo&ical
                               ,;z.
                                    t>

                                   /)
                                             0
                                              ,,
                                                 /)      11


                                                         ,1
                                                              0-P 0./J o.o
                                                         ,;/ 11-3 0.0 13.J
                                                                   o.P      0.0 0.()
                                                                                             I
                                                                                            t1
                                                                                                /)           /}



                                                                                                          " I0 -9.,
                                                                                                             Cla.o o.o
                                                                                                                        t)     00       o.o
                                                                                                                                        0.(/
                                                                                                                                                 ,.o
                                                                                                                                                ;,,,3
                                                                                                                                                 0.,
                                                                                                                                                           /?
                                                                                                                                                            /J
                                                                                                                                                           /_                0
                                                                                                                                                                              tJ          ,1

                                                                                                                                                                              " I 8-3o.o 0.0 B-3
                                                                                                                                                                                          /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                0.0       Q..D

                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 O.(J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           C)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         tf I / JU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       t) o.o

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (1     f}.Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             o.o 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0 J:l.i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             O_(J   <i.P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
    1:-                                 I     0          I         (.1      0. 0 ,.7         ,f              /)     17 Q.t              0.1}     o-P       ti               0         CJ        o.4       q_p 0.0          <7            CJ            I       q.J           0. 0 'f. 3
    ~


    --
        ....                        /,}          /J       0         o. 0    (/.0  0-0       t)           .:)        ~ D,0               8.7      R.7          p              t}       (J        o.a       q,d (1.0          ~             I/            '} 'H

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ~c. .i5.lJ lflf.2 JOO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1-1.7 8-2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
      T..:tal
    -·-                        r9                71.S fl: 'lt.7 J DO. /J                                It)       ., _-g rt.5 'iH /PO. /,J
                                                                                                                                                                            "        /./ IPd.t o.o JOI. il,IQ                           :f ~

                            77/.fLE                   /Ii'4                 .E r.4L.VA 77/?J//
                                                                             ;f{/9                                                                                                                                       - ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ;
                              _s-" <;'1;ct1Nl?5 A,YP                       L~ss                       6'-/tJ        SFCPIY./75                                           //-3CJ                .5~CO/YP$                              3/-btJ                 SeCP/1/195
I                                    Number               Per Cent                                       Per Cent                 Nuntier                Per Cent                                                                Number                 Per Cent
          Evaluation
    0-Baloon
                             Certain OoubHuI Total Certain Doublll I Tobi Certain Doublfu I Total Certain DoulJl(lj Tola! Certain Doubtfu I Total Certain DoubtfuI Total


                               /. -
                                   C)        cJ          /J         o.o
                                                        qJ )/.If 7f.O
                                                                            0.0   0.0       d            A          0          0.0       o. 0 0 .o        /J                (l p ~q &.II I.I
                                                                                                                                                                           6 ,..., 30.0 J().O uo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Certain DOllbtfuI Tolal Certain Doubtful Tola!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                tJ       0             0        o. 0        Q.Q     Q.0            I
                                                                                                                    '                  'l'i.'I 11.7-9      £                                                                                                  Ja7           J.C. /lf.3
    I-Astronomical                          vj                                    '/0.lf    I)           /                    0,0                                                                                                .(          }         II-
    2-Aircraft                     /J            {j          y     0.()     3.f   u         C,           /'
                                                                                                                    ,.,I o. o <I.O      1.)      1-1       _.:;           (7  .J /0.0 0-0 /0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                ,.,                             -,       /)            7      25.0 0.0 2f.O
    3-Lip!Ph91011.
    4-Buds
    I-Cloud~ Dust, et,
                                   /J
                                   ,1
                                   .,,
                                             0
                                             /
                                             (j
                                                         C)
                                                         /
                                                tJ O.P Q.0 d.()
                                                                   o.o o.o
                                                                   o.o /. 0
                                                                                  O.P
                                                                                  /.0
                                                                                            cl
                                                                                             /
                                                                                            /J
                                                                                                         /7
                                                                                                        II
                                                                                                             ~

                                                                                                                     /
                                                                                                                    /I
                                                                                                                              7.1
                                                                                                                              0.0
                                                                                                                                        (/.0
                                                                                                                                        o. 0 7./
                                                                                                                                        I}. 0
                                                                                                                                             0.0

                                                                                                                                                p./}
                                                                                                                                                           4
                                                                                                                                                           ,1
                                                                                                                                                           /.)
                                                                                                                                                              , d /
                                                                                                                                                                        d
                                                                                                                                                                         d
                                                                                                                                                                             -d

                                                                                                                                                                             d
                                                                                                                                                                                     ✓
                                                                                                                                                                                     If
                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0 Q.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                o.11
                                                                                                                                                                                                9.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                        u
                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0 o.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,1_(J          7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,!?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ()



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       {)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            QJJ o., o_,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3 JIJ. 7 tJ,I 10. 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (/.P Q.d            O.P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
    6-tnsuffic.klfo.           'Y'           t1 </ u   Q.0 3.:,                                         0           I         7.J       1/./)   7- I                                            ,;_Q    o.P 5.P                                                 H          o.o H
                                                                                            .,,
                                                                                            /                                                                                                                                    I        t)           I
    7-Psydlolo,ir.a
    &-Unkno..
    ~a,.,
                               ,?

                               /
                               0
                                            /']

                                             d
                                              0
                                                 p o.o 0.0 o.o
                                                         /
                                                        tJ
                                                                   ).0
                                                                   Q.O
                                                                           o.o J.0
                                                                           o.o o.o           I
                                                                                                II
                                                                                                         (/
                                                                                                         /J
                                                                                                         ,1
                                                                                                                    /I
                                                                                                                    v 1$.t Q.0 2/i.6
                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                              0./J

                                                                                                                               7.J
                                                                                                                                        i).(J


                                                                                                                                        Q.11
                                                                                                                                                 Q.Q


                                                                                                                                                7./
                                                                                                                                                           c'
                                                                                                                                                           d
                                                                                                                                                              A             ,1
                                                                                                                                                                            ,f

                                                                                                                                                                            cJ
                                                                                                                                                                                     ., :u.o
                                                                                                                                                                                      /1

                                                                                                                                                                                      ti
                                                                                                                                                                                                ().{}    0.0 o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                         ()_0 7S.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                o.o u.o 0 .{)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          J 'I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       t)    o.o o. q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                q_(J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   13 II/,.' O.P 'ft.'f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,., o.O o.o o.q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                     .. .,,                                                                   .,,_, J.t, //JO.:
        Toi~                 17 Q'j1 1/.:,.s l'-'J                          31.   JOO.      'J            7 /ti 5'0.1 {0.0 /tJO.                         /SI            t                      70.0 '3P.I I oo.          ,'Z..7          I         ?<7

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
I
I Evaluation
                             £/SECCNPS -S,A//N/ITFS
                                    Number                Per Cent                 Number
                                                                                                      A -:J17 /11,,vvT,=5
                                                                                                          PerCmt
                            Certain DoubtfuI Total Certain Doubtfu I Total Certain Doubttu I Tolal Certain DwbllrrI Tola!
                                                                                                                                                                  On,p ?t:) M/,1'.nT~<C
                                                                                                                                                                Nuntler                Per Cent               Number
                                                                                                                                                         ertain Doubtfu I Tola! Certain DoubtfuI Tobi Certain Doubllrr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      #r SrAr,t,;;,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Tola! Cemin Dwlrtlul Tolal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
    0-Batoon                       q             I      /()        :l1.7 u 11C.3            :i.              II      C lf.'f 8.'f JJ.3                        ()            0         0         o.o     tl.tl    o.o        t;           0         {'           1.9 o. 0 3. 'I
    I-Astronomic.al
    2-Aircratt
    3-Lid'I Pbmom.
                                   --
                                   7
                                    /)
                                             7
                                             0
                                                 '       q
                                                          7

                                                         /)
                                                                    5. 3 ,3. :i !B.S
                                                                   /Vi 5- J 23_7
                                                                   o.o     O.P    o.o
                                                                                            5
                                                                                            5
                                                                                            tJ
                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                        13
                                                                                                          n
                                                                                                                     6 ,n o.o IJ. J
                                                                                                                   I( /1.J
                                                                                                                     /J       Q.O
                                                                                                                                        18.1 J/Q.O
                                                                                                                                        b.O      O./J
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           /)
                                                                                                                                                              :,


                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                     U-
                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                      /J
                                                                                                                                                                                               17.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                o.o r_q r.~
                                                                                                                                                                                                0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                        s-. 'f ~3.5

                                                                                                                                                                                                         o./1 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4':Z.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7tJ -, .., ]Z,fl -?'I./.) 56.:Z..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         s-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IS" 7.8 'J.tf JI .7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0 o:n         p.() 0 /l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
    4-Bmts                          (J       0           ,., 0.0           0 .b   o.o        ()          I}         0         0.0       o.o V.I            /J                /J       /J        0.0     o.o 0              ()           CJ         /J          0.0          0.0     '0
    S.-CloudS. Oust, etc.
    ~lnsuff1c.lnfo.

t7-Psycholocical
                                    ()

                                   /:,
                                   0
                                             ()
                                              ()
                                             ,,
                                                         tJ 0.0
                                                         6 !H
                                                          tJ o.O
                                                                           O.Q 0.0
                                                                           0-0
                                                                       o.o o.o
                                                                                  ,ra       2
                                                                                             /)


                                                                                                I
                                                                                                         p
                                                                                                         tJ
                                                                                                         /J
                                                                                                                    7
                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                     /)       o.o
                                                                                                                              l-1.1;
                                                                                                                              n
                                                                                                                                        o.o oo
                                                                                                                                        o.o II.If
                                                                                                                                        0.0     2-2.
                                                                                                                                                           17

                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                            n
                                                                                                                                                                            "
                                                                                                                                                                                      /J


                                                                                                                                                                                     ()
                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                               o.o o.n Q_q tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                               !.'I o.O f'i 2 /J
                                                                                                                                                                                               o.o 0.4 0. p ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ;i..n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IS.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              J,6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            D.D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            o.o JH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            o.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    () q


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
is.un'"°'"'                        t:        0
                                                         '         !l2 o.o /1-'i.           //           i)        ,; 'N~               0. 0 'J'{.j        6                n         .<:      35:3 0.IJ 3S-3             II            0          I/         fU,           0. o    u
 9-0ttte,


       Tolol                  3/l
                                    I        0

                                             51'
                                                         I :it             o.o U,

                                                        JX 73.'J ').I.I /00, :n
                                                                                             I           {)


                                                                                                        /)
                                                                                                                     /

                                                                                                                  fl.',
                                                                                                                              ?,2       o. (J 2.2

                                                                                                                             ,n 37.8 /00. Ir
                                                                                                                                                           .)               t?


                                                                                                                                                                            :z.
                                                                                                                                                                                      ,:- Jf.i;


                                                                                                                                                                                     /7
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Q,Q      2?,A       <           CJ

                                                                                                                                                                                               88.i 11.8 /QO. 93 '3("" I !_ill" 72-7 27-3 /In,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       c;,    J.J          o. 0 ~- '3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                       154
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
I
I
I                               OWE                   ltff

                                    ; - .YFCCJ/il/J.J' ,/,YI? ft,:,.J
                                         Number               PerCenl
                                                                                                       p-/(J .5[::UJ,Y/7.S
                                                                                                        Number                Per Cent
                                                                                                                                           /tLL                S/6/ITIA/GS

                                                                                                                                                                            //-30
                                                                                                                                                                       Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                  5ECOiV.l?S.
                                                                                                                                                                                             Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           7 /-tf;:J S-,CO/YPS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Per Cent



I   t--
             Enluation
        0.S.llooo
    :1-Astrooomical
        2•A1mlft
                                certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total


                                  /;1
                                        I     0
                                              f(
                                                             I    /1,0 t?,(J 11,/J
                                                          ;z r, /lf.O J2,,tJ fl,:),t
                                                                                                 ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                    /)



                                                                                                    u
                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                               ;l
                                                                                                                           0 tJ.(J
                                                                                                                           3 /~.]
                                                                                                                          l,f S'7./
                                                                                                                                           0. p 00
                                                                                                                                           :n., 'n'f
                                                                                                                                           D. 0 lf7. /
                                                                                                                                                                ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total

                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                   6
                                                                                                                                                                    < ::z
                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                   I      I 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                              7 78.(,
                                                                                                                                                                                          "1 13.Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                               if.~ //8
                                                                                                                                                                                                              1./'6 B.'/
                                                                                                                                                                                                              9., 33,3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ;i_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ::z..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1/J,O        tJ.o /{J.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /) I, '2.{J.O ;i.g.(!

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,,, "
                                   '          t)            I    #,(!   (!,()  11.P                             I)                                                                                                               ~           /)                :Z/J,I.      0./J


I       J.L1&flt Phenom.
        4•Birds
        $-Cloud~ Dus~ el~
        6-lllSUffic. ~fa.
                                   /')
                                   ()
                                     ('
                                    2-
                                              0
                                             ()
                                             ()
                                             0
                                                           0
                                                            0
                                                            {'


                                                           '1
                                                                   ", 0.0 0,0
                                                                   /J.C t'. {J 0.0
                                                                      ,!!,(!

                                                                     <1 t
                                                                               I),()

                                                                               ao 'o.()
                                                                                        O,D
                                                                                                   ,.,
                                                                                                   (?



                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                    /.
                                                                                                                ,:?
                                                                                                               (?
                                                                                                               ()

                                                                                                               /J
                                                                                                                           {)
                                                                                                                           ,., 0,0
                                                                                                                           /)
                                                                                                                          /)
                                                                                                                                   O.P

                                                                                                                                   0.0
                                                                                                                                  o.J
                                                                                                                                           o.o q.(J
                                                                                                                                            o., 0.,
                                                                                                                                           0-0 V,g
                                                                                                                                           00 4'
                                                                                                                                                                   I)
                                                                                                                                                                   ,,.,
                                                                                                                                                                   6
                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                               t'
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                              /)
                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                          J o. p

                                                                                                                                                                                          tJ o.P
                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                    'i.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                               o.P 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                               1),/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                               M 0q
                                                                                                                                                                                                               f/.P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        o.o

                                                                                                                                                                                                                       •d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /'.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                [.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ",
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 tJ.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0 JJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            C),p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            C),/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ~A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0./J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     tJ,c.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /l,A

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     o.o

I   ·-
        7-Psycllolo~cal


        9-0llle<
                                     0

                                   /')
                                        (
                                               I'
                                              (}
                                              {'
                                                           /,J
                                                           I
                                                          CJ
                                                                      {),I

                                                                     Ir,()

                                                                     /1,I
                                                                               0,0
                                                                               (? t')
                                                                               1?.I)
                                                                                        0.0
                                                                                        J./,0
                                                                                        /J,0
                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                   f)
                                                                                                    I.
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               t?
                                                                                                                          t?
                                                                                                                          (J
                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                  o.,
                                                                                                                                   0,0
                                                                                                                                  O.P
                                                                                                                                            (}.U
                                                                                                                                            0,0
                                                                                                                                            0./)
                                                                                                                                                     o.o
                                                                                                                                                     q.p
                                                                                                                                                     ,.o
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                   e;
                                                                                                                                                                   /.
                                                                                                                                                                               C,
                                                                                                                                                                              t:J
                                                                                                                                                                               t?
                                                                                                                                                                                         {)
                                                                                                                                                                                         }
                                                                                                                                                                                         (J
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ne
                                                                                                                                                                                                    o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Q.(l
                                                                                                                                                                                                               O.P ?J.j
                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.P   Q.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        q,Q       /'.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ii.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LI-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      't
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IJ.11,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               /IJ.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ao

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            tJ./)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     t?.t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             t).IJ O.b.l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    It'!. 0




I   ;       Total               17           ,r'          ,;l.5 6'{,/, 3,2,1,/(){),               F           ).         ?        71.'t    -;zu ;go,            17            JI.       :Z..I ';/()           If. 0 /00.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           j__       /1) l{M ::io.tJ /{J[)




I             Evaluation
                                c°/ ~('Et:lNF.:, - S ..Af/A!tlT.F.S'
                                        Number                Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                            o-3/) )-/,111tJTJ;.f
                                                                                                            PerCmt                  NuntJer               Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                  tJv5/f                JtJ ,'-l/11/tlT'l:S
                                                                                                                                                                                  Numtl=r
                                Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doublful Total Certain Ooublful Total ~ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu

                                                                                                                                                     n.~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          M,r              ..5rAT.t=P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PerCml
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                     Ff IB JP. 7
        0.Balloon                    ~                I     t                                      0
                                                                                                                    "     /7      ~/. 7     (.7                    g               0      '{ 3:1.IJ            1/{J     :v,p      C             I          I    1/.'f       /. 0 5. ~

I       l·Astm:>mieal
        2•Airaaft
        3-Li&htPtlenom.
                                     //,
                                     7
                                        /)    C'
                                                 /,J
                                                  I
                                                           4
                                                           q
                                                           0
                                                                     7./
                                                                    l].5
                                                                     {),(/
                                                                               0.0
                                                                               ,& /II.<
                                                                               (/_(/
                                                                                        7I

                                                                                        9.0
                                                                                                   3
                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                       4

                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                   v
                                                                                                                   fl-
                                                                                                                           {/.
                                                                                                                           7
                                                                                                                           I}
                                                                                                                                  '-7
                                                                                                                                  ro ,.7 /1.7
                                                                                                                                  0.0
                                                                                                                                            0.0

                                                                                                                                            0,0
                                                                                                                                                      C-7

                                                                                                                                                     o.,
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                    .,              I
                                                                                                                                                                                  , J
                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                          3


                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                               ir.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                     {JO

                                                                                                                                                                                                      Or-
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ti,/) l:Z.l:J
                                                                                                                                                                                                              2/! (J ;;zao
                                                                                                                                                                                                               O.o      /9.()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ?,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     31 IU, /O.IJ 10.f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ~ /t.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0 o,o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             H If.'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0 Q.Q
        4-Biids                         I'       /)  o.a   ()                  Q-0       Q.I        0          0          0       0.Q       0.0      q.g           0           0          {J         t'J.,0    P.I      P.CJ     0          0          {)       ()_(/       0.0     o.o
I       5-Clouds. Ousl. et:c.
        S-lnsuffic.lnfD.
        7-Psyctalogical
                                  1,
                                    0

                                    I
                                              11  0

                                              t' I I~
                                                     0.0
                                             t) /y 7&.f
                                                                               o.o Q-0
                                                                               ».o !lbt
                                                                               o.P      /,'}
                                                                                                    "'
                                                                                                       /,

                                                                                                       i'      /)
                                                                                                                {?
                                                                                                                   /J      0
                                                                                                                           3'
                                                                                                                           3
                                                                                                                                  o.,
                                                                                                                                  r.o
                                                                                                                                  s.o
                                                                                                                                            {}_Q
                                                                                                                                            0.0 5,
                                                                                                                                            0.0 f 0
                                                                                                                                                     (/,0          0
                                                                                                                                                                   /J.
                                                                                                                                                                   c-
                                                                                                                                                                               tJ
                                                                                                                                                                               I)
                                                                                                                                                                               t?
                                                                                                                                                                                          {}


                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                             tJ.o
                                                                                                                                                                                         tf 11.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Cl,O     o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                               /). 0 /6.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                              t?.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -,,,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        "'·" Ii'{) {)0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            f)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7-tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               73.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            o.o 13-5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            o., o. 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    o.O


        1-Unkno.a                 16          t' 16                 n.,        0.0      ')8.1,                  0        ;i;,..   30        O.P      3'.7          t;"         /)         )                                                          I'{       17.6         o.o /7.6

I
                                                                                                 ;:,2                                                                                               7h,         (),I ,26',l
        9-0ther
                                   '         3    t, f.'/                      u !Og                   I           ?       If     /. 7 5.o r,.,                   0           ,:'J        /)         tP.o      0.0      0.1)     ;i.._      I          z 1.0              or ~
    I       Total                n            )           J& 9!./              8.9 NO. 4-'!                   II         bC en              ,e.} /00.           l'1            I ,;zr 71,,0 ,)..1-.0 l{)(J                      r-6 lb /02 9'1.J !f7 /()0.

I                                   ~ 5£CONt?S A,VP LES.S
                                                                                     1rs1
                                                                                      t,"-/tJ ,5,:ChVR..5
                                                                                                                                                               S/6/fT/&GS:

                                                                                                                                                                           //.-3t:J
                                                                                                                                                                                                          4Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                  .5t;C-,,,¥.P.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ;21/,f,?T/,{J,1/

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ?/-,,,,r:J S.t= ,:,:1.,yp.5
    I Evaluation                        Number                Per Cent                 Number               Per Cent                                                   NullDer               Per Cent                Number                                              PerCmt


I       0.Balloon
        1-Astronomieal
                                Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Docmtful Total Certain Doubtful Tolal


                                  IC'
                                     :J       0
                                                 2         /;J.
                                                                0    0.()      0. p I .0
                                                                    S'f.8 j/_g 70.,
                                                                                                    {J
                                                                                                       4
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                           0       (),IJ     n.o
                                                                                                                           .l s,,o I;!,., 67.!'
                                                                                                                                                      ,:?.O
                                                                                                                                                                ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Oouhtfu


                                                                                                                                                                   ti
                                                                                                                                                                       I       0
                                                                                                                                                                                  /)
                                                                                                                                                                                           I '-/./
                                                                                                                                                                                          /,IJf,.lf
                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.P V
                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.0 3,.lf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Total Certain Ooublful Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 tJ.I)      ().()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                l.t) 2A.tJ ~-~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     t?.O

        2-Aircraft                   I        0                 I   H          00       n              I      0             I     /7. 5     (),p l;J..!            .5             0       '3 27. 3             0~ :I 7,3          '?            I      L/.     60.() ,1.p, () 'ilP.t>

I       3-Li&hll'h""".
        4-Birds
        S-Clouds, Cmt,etc.
                                   /)
                                    /)
                                    (.">
                                             /)

                                             0
                                              /?                0
                                                                0
                                                                     IJQ
                                                                     q.Q
                                                                t? 0.0
                                                                               0.0
                                                                                0,0
                                                                               0.0
                                                                                        o.,
                                                                                        (J.Q
                                                                                        0.1
                                                                                                   (?
                                                                                                   (/
                                                                                                   n
                                                                                                               tJ
                                                                                                                /')

                                                                                                                I)        0
                                                                                                                           ()
                                                                                                                           (J
                                                                                                                                   t7.D
                                                                                                                                   0.0
                                                                                                                                   o.o
                                                                                                                                             tJ.O 0.0
                                                                                                                                             0,0 {J.O
                                                                                                                                             ,:?.~    P.0
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                   n
                                                                                                                                                                    /)
                                                                                                                                                                                  tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                   tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                          I)

                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                          ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                     o.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.1/ O.Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                               ff.I If. I
                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.Q 0 .I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   r,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IJ.tl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            121
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (/,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            C),O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /J,O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     tl.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     tJ.O
        6-lnsuffic. ~to.             0       n              0        Q,0       U.fl     0,(1        {}          ()        /)       P,()      0,0      O,o          C              0       ()        o.~        o.O 0 .,          0          /)        (/        ,1,p       /,J,0      P,()


I       7-PsycholoJical
        &-Unkno•
        C)-()ther
                                    /)

                                   II
                                    0
                                              /)

                                             (')
                                              l)
                                                            I]

                                                            //
                                                            I)
                                                                    o.o        0.0
                                                                    1J.S 0.0 23-5
                                                                     o.o 0.0 Q.g
                                                                                        q_()
                                                                                                   2.
                                                                                                    ~
                                                                                                       {)

                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                (}



                                                                                                               /)
                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                            .2 ::is,t
                                                                                                                           I)
                                                                                                                                   tJ.b

                                                                                                                                   O,t
                                                                                                                                             tM
                                                                                                                                             cJ.o l~s;o
                                                                                                                                             c!.O 0.0
                                                                                                                                                      (J,()        tJ
                                                                                                                                                                  :t
                                                                                                                                                                   /)
                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                   (J
                                                                                                                                                                                          /)
                                                                                                                                                                                          ,...
                                                                                                                                                                                          /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                     O.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                    18.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                     o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                               o., q.Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                               o.o ,6-2
                                                                                                                                                                                                               O.(J     () 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     " t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /)



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             f)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /J, 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                d,'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IJ.f)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            17.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           o.o t'-0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .t?.o tJ.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,::?,/)




I           Total                IS-         .2           17 i8.~              JIJ JIN,            7           I           q '67-5 /,;7,.F ,oo.                 IP             I         //         9P.'I      'I I 100.         J          ,2..      .F pP,() JI0-0 100




I            Evaluation
                                 tf/ ..:,fi"Cv#P.5 - .FMA/t1T.F.5
                                        Number                PerCts1t
                                Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                            ,G'-.3t) M/.A/VT/:5
                                                                                                            Number            Per Celli
                                                                                                 ertain Doublful Tolal Certain Doubtful Tola!
                                                                                                                                  8.3 o. q
                                                                                                                                                                           c:Jv.r If' JtJ ,11//A/t/TEY
                                                                                                                                                                            Number           Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Af,,, STATIT.P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doublful Total Certain Doubttul Total


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ' /J7 t.t,
        0.S.lloon                  ,t...      f             3 77               Jg 115              7-         0            ;z..                  i>                    I       I?         I 1:z.s tl.t? ;;u                       L/                                       Lff      /1.5

I       I-Astronomical
        Z-Aucraft
        3-Li&hl Ph.,.,._
                                    C'
                                    '.?
                                    ()
                                             I
                                             I
                                              I            I    Q.O
                                                           LI l/.5
                                                            I 0. 0
                                                                               J.i 3.8
                                                                               3.B /J.3
                                                                               3.B 1.'l
                                                                                                    3
                                                                                                    ;2.
                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                               LI-
                                                                                                               I)
                                                                                                                          ,t/ /).5
                                                                                                                            f
                                                                                                                           I 1./.1
                                                                                                                                           t.q I'-?
                                                                                                                                  3-'3 16-7 15. O
                                                                                                                                            O.d      lf.2
                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                    I

                                                                                                                                                                   /'}
                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                              I)

                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                          2- 10. S 0.5 ;,.,,.,

                                                                                                                                                                                          I?
                                                                                                                                                                                              I    /;1..5
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0,C.
                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,I.C)   /;,, s
                                                                                                                                                                                                               tJ,o /J.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ~     ff)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ::z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               'f.'f ''·'f 1/. 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.1 J. l (,,(,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I.(,       o.o /. t
                                                                               o n o.o                                        o. 0
        4-Birds                      /)       /'}           {J 0.0                                             /)          ()               a.a      Q,V            0         (?          0          ,?.p      ,PO t?.o           0         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       "        0.0        0.0      A.I

I       $-Clouds, Dus~ et~
        6-lnsuffic.tltl.
                                     /)

                                        I
                                              f'
                                             /'
                                                           C) 0, 0
                                                            I 3.9
                                                                    o.o , B H
                                                                               Q.O
                                                                               00
                                                                                         u
                                                                                        1Jl
                                                                                                   "C
                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                               I)

                                                                                                               C7
                                                                                                                          {)
                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                  ,Q.0
                                                                                                                                  1/. i
                                                                                                                                            0. 0
                                                                                                                                            0 .0
                                                                                                                                                     a.a
                                                                                                                                                     I/. 7..
                                                                                                                                                                    (J
                                                                                                                                                                   7.
                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                              r,
                                                                                                                                                                                         {)
                                                                                                                                                                                             ~"
                                                                                                                                                                                         :z ;:,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                /J./ P.IJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                               I),() :zr-,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /J

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 le'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      {}  0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1/J It.If
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           n.o q,q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          o.o /£,4

    ·-
        7-Psycllolo&ical                0     I             I                                       0          n          (J       0.0      p~ a. o                I',        I?          iJ          P,O       t?P /l(J          I          /J        I       /. (,      o.a / . '
                                  I~          r:> 13 so.o                      o.o fd.O             7          ,?         7 .1n             0.0 1'-1               2          I?         :z ~,,o               tJ./J 25:0       '22         t?       7.7       3t. I o.o            3{.I


I       9-0llle<


            Total               :Z I
                                     ..<     {J


                                             .F .7-6
                                                            2       7.7

                                                                    f0.9
                                                                               0-Q      7.J

                                                                               l'/.t /10.
                                                                                                   ;;,


                                                                                                 /'I
                                                                                                               n          3 175

                                                                                                              .r ::LJj. 7f.l we IQO,
                                                                                                                                            0.0 12.S               /9


                                                                                                                                                                   7
                                                                                                                                                                              0


                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                         t?          (J.(J



                                                                                                                                                                                         f' ·0.5 l~,S' /{)IJ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                tJ.o /J,{J        3

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                116
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0              r   't.<f 0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I.J 61 1n 2'1.6 /1111.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    "~

I                                                                                                                                         155

I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                       fl/IL.Ii

                         )'" j£CC,YJ?5
                                Jlimber
                                          II (t
                                                 Al/? ,i~S5
                                                            Et/At.. tiII T/tJdt
                                                             1'1!>?.


                                                      Per Cent
                                                                              /'-It?
                                                                               Number
                                                                                                   t7F

                                                                                             5c.CIJNP.f
                                                                                                           .4LL


                                                                                                     PerCenl
                                                                                                                               //-3tJ 5£.C.IJNOJ
                                                                                                                                  Nu-                   Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                "31- ,5~
                                                                                                                                                                                Number
                                                                                                                                                                                               5ectPIIPS
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
I



                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
        Enluabon        Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful, Total ~ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total       ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Dwblful Total Certain Doubtful Toi~
:0.-Bllloon                  I     .fl 6          0 'i './017-lf             J         /J      7    f.1    .n t,. 3       I 'f;      q
                                                                                                                                   if. 'f        n               u         i}       /1       I 'I     5.7 7 'l /3.f.
                                                                                                                                                                                                              -3.1; !U. 7
    l•Astmnom1cal

,----
      ~




2-Aimilft
                         c/11
                          2,
                                   ?<2 I];/_
                                  2.,
                                                  1811 lf.5153.9
                                           'tfi '18      'fBltf.t,
                                                                           _;i.q
                                                                            h
                                                                                      I , 'f 'I 'Jfj 11.'I 31.J ,:J.6    35 /'I/ If.If 1,0
                                                                                      13 '31 17.0 116 ?f.{, 'I, 33 68 13.'/ 17 8 3t.1"                                   It?
                                                                                                                                                                         ~~
                                                                                                                                                                                   ~ I 5
                                                                                                                                                                                   ;J.L, If 'f
                                                                                                                                                                                                     7./
                                                                                                                                                                                                 '7. I        ltf. 3 31.'I
i J..Ll&f'II Phenom.
4•Bnds
                             I
                             I
                                   ...,
                                     J
                                             J 0 'r      08
                                                         I .1
                                                                    /.']
                                                                    1-6
                                                                             I         0    I 0.9 Q.P Q.1/
                                                                                             I 0.0 0 9 Q.'f
                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                    tJ
                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                               O 5 o. 5' /. 0
                                                                                                                               0 S o.o o.s
                                                                                                                                             •                             IJ
                                                                                                                                                                            'i
                                                                                                                                                                                    ;;2.
                                                                                                                                                                                       I ,t/
                                                                                                                                                                                              'l o. 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                     :i ./
                                                                                                                                                                                                              /. 'r /. If
                                                                                                                                                                                                              o. 7 7.!J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
~Clouds, Dus~ et~            I       I     .4- O.t/
                                                0.1(     0 't 08
                                                         0. 0 i lj.t;
                                                                             0
                                                                             t>
                                                                                        I
                                                                                       {)   0 q.O IJ.Q o.o     /,J
                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                    ::i.     ~ 0.0 J./ I/                                  ~        0         p       a. oo.o o.o
6-lnsuftit. Mio.           /.I     /)     ii      lf'i                        ;;       (}  7 ,.1 0.(/ ,.2      /(   0 II S.'l ().0 'S.'f                                  II        0        ii       7 'Io.P 7. f
1-l'sydlolopc:al
1-Unlulo•
~Olhe<
                         ~
                             ~

                             ~

                             q
                                    (l

                                    t>
                                    ;z
                                           :I.    Dg     0 0 I OI?
                                          H 10 6 O 0 10.t,
                                          I/ 3.7 o e 'f.',
                                                                             r;
                                                                           1'1
                                                                             I
                                                                                       0 0 0 p O.IJ o. 0
                                                                                       /) I 'I 17 0 Q(I 17. p 3'3

                                                                                       0    I 0' o n p.'f
                                                                                                                s 2 7 :n /. I 3.B
                                                                                                                IL
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                    [
                                                                                                                          3 l /7.8 0.0 17g
                                                                                                                         /').      f.1 t.~       u
                                                                                                                                                                           Z_

                                                                                                                                                                         J/.r.
                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                                                               z   I. /.f O.P /.',
                                                                                                                                                                                            If P '.18.6 0. D 28.&
                                                                                                                                                                                               3 o. 7 I.I/ 7./
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
       Total            170       7 'S 1J.IK Cf.if 30t JtJO.               7'!        13 /J::;. 70 S ,'H !PtJ. ,21                 i1 /'!5 /,fl/ Jlf.t IO P 'I 'I If I                      /tf!)    70.7 29, 3 JOO.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
I
I
i       Evaluahon
                         El .Sr.:.c1,11:>s -S-/1,f/,tt/lTF!.
                                Number                 Per Cent
                                                                                  ~-3/J M/NUT,t:J
                                                                                 Number                Per Cent
                                                                                                                                  tJVe'K 3t:J M//VPTE-'
                                                                                                                                Nuntier               Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                   ;!&r
                                                                                                                                                                              Number
                        Certain Doubtful Total Certain • Doubtful. Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain O...blful Total Gertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu
                                                          H n,
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Sr,,,T;:P
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Per Call
                                                                                                                                                                                             Total Certain Dwbllul Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
!o.e.i1oon                //?,    3,:     82 n.7                            L?         /,~ 117 /{.g 12.'l. 29,(             ,2.,     11     39 11./.lf
                                                                                                                                                                 ~,,
                                                                                                                                                           (.'f )0'6      3s-       7  S-7            84       f.3 13. 7
Jt-Astronom,eal
12-Aircrah
!l-Li&fll Ph010m.
                          51
                             l/


                             r:
                                    'i'
                                  t;h //3
                                    3   'f
                                          I"{     I.I    V
                                                  15.7 If II 3/./
                                                  17      o.8 -;;.s
                                                         r.. 0 o. 3
                                                                    3. 3    ;z3
                                                                           7;,
                                                                            /J
                                                                                       I~ 38 t2. 'I. I f0.3
                                                                                      ti I 73 N, I/./ l'/.7
                                                                                       6      I'/ 3-5       U, 5. I
                                                                                                                            ;J.7
                                                                                                                             //
                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                     I tJ 41
                                                                                                                                      'l 20
                                                                                                                                      ;z.
                                                                                                                                                 l'l.'I 7 S
                                                                                                                                                f.'f
                                                                                                                                             3 o. 5
                                                                                                                                                         1./.U 10.7
                                                                                                                                                         /./ /.I,
                                                                                                                                                                 u
                                                                                                                                                                          t,.
                                                                                                                                                                         ii~
                                                                                                                                                                            .1
                                                                                                                                                                                    16 ,1
                                                                                                                                                                                   $/;
                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                            81.f /J.S
                                                                                                                                                                                             'f 0-7
                                                                                                                                                                                                      //. 3 3-8 IS, I
                                                                                                                                                                                                               8.7 :J().1
                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.2 Q 'I
                                                                                                                                                                                                               o. tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
:4-Buds                      I      r        I
                                                  0-3                        JJ        0   0 0.0           O.o      0.0       '!     0      3 I. I,      o. 0               It      0        If /.0                    I.P
!Hloud~ Dus\ ,t~
:s-1nsuffic.lnfo.
;7-Psycholoaical
                             I
                          / fj
                             {/    3
                                    0
                                     :,     9 o-J
                                            J'. 0 Q. 0 s.o
                                          I fJ
                                         7 II 0-'I I• 1
                                                         /. f ~-1
                                                                           70

                                                                             7
                                                                                 '?    .2.

                                                                                       0
                                                                                           S' o.8
                                                                                       0 2'1 7.B
                                                                                           7 l'f
                                                                                                            o. 5 /. 3
                                                                                                            o. 0 7.S
                                                                                                            o. 0   /.f       ~
                                                                                                                              /J
                                                                                                                               Q
                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                            If '),/      o.o
                                                                                                                                            u 'f.'3 O.P 'f.3
                                                                                                                                            -5   '}./     o.5 2.,
                                                                                                                                                                 -;.J     .1
                                                                                                                                                                         7/
                                                                                                                                                                          ~
                                                                                                                                                                                    IJ
                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                       I     4- o.7
                                                                                                                                                                                            71 17.I
                                                                                                                                                                                             '3 0 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                               0. 2P.'I
                                                                                                                                                                                                              OP t]. I
                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.2 o. 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
l~IJnkno..,              (O (       (? JO I 21.a o.o ne                    77         /J      77 103        o. 0 2P.B       C2        0 S':l 'JB.3       0.0 n.1 1,11:              tJ      10,      -.zr.s   0.D 'H-5
19-0lhei
I
       Tot,I
                          1;z.      17  12, 3.3 0.0 J. 3

                        ;m //j 113 Cf.'/ 31/ /PD. 'JS1 // 3 J7tJ1
                                                                            II         J./           3.0
                                                                                              " C'l.5 30.5
                                                                                                            /. I   I/. I

                                                                                                                   I 00.
                                                                                                                              'l      1     II    't.3

                                                                                                                           ,11-, 4/ th 79.I J./.1 JIN. 13~
                                                                                                                                                          /.{,   ..r.r    /q        I        2 0 't.6

                                                                                                                                                                                  7!' IJ!/b 91.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                              0. ']    '1.8

                                                                                                                                                                                                               li-9 /QQ.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                           156
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
I
I
I                          fllJ/Llc

                            _s-$cU!;VP5 AAIO
                                          Number          Per Cent
                                                                               j...c,J
                                                                                  Number
                                                                                        ALL

                                                                                                        Per Cent
                                                                                                                i/E/1/S
                                                                                                                     l?-/c? .5,,-coA/.P.5                                         I/ - .30 5!,CCW,PJ
                                                                                                                                                                             Number                Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .V-t£J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5€COA/P5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /




I
                            Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total ~ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total                                               ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
         Evaluation
                                             s           3                                                                         ? .R.~           '{d     ._.,         s-        117 I-< .::,3                         ¥. t C.9                   IS     t.                         t..J II
    D-Balloon
    1-Astronomical
                                   '3
                            of /()£ '7 -11 ~/II) -1<1.~ r.~ r,/
                                                                    A<)         /,Ji 'J :;
                                                                                                         36
                                                                                                           3
                                                                                                                      23
                                                                                                                        JJ.
                                                                                                                              S9        ?" /       17() ''{ 1          JI
                                                                                                                                                                                               ,, ...
                                                                                                                                                                                   IIJ- 5.:1 /7'1                       t;.S, 1jf 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                            I~ ~ l.>-1 -.:t:i;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ' 'l ~.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ill
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          g;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         //}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       </9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (/.(,             I~.<
    2-Aircraft              :n ;l,J /I~ L t.5 q ,/J                                                      ;z.o          II      V        /II)         <I.I J2 q         JJt        ;3                                                                   £2,       --~ t'i'.d          J j { JU

                                                                               "·I./
I                                       </ Ill                                                                                     ~    /J.J                                                                       11.5 I.a                             i
    Hight Phe,om.            .,I.. ;z.                    I, .J                                            I            .2                          /.j     .l ..J       I             I            .2      II<                            {)                      .:1      a/)        I        /,.J
                                                      (.
    4-Birds                    ,;2.          JJ          v'         /).(.                    I    '1       I)            I       I      AA          /)'     7,f          I           I              2       o ..t i?.s I.IJ                !,            I          L        ·u       t)'       ~- i
    S-Clouds. Dust. etc.          (J           I     I             t) I)        ,d I.'.!,                  p            I}      tJ      ;}t,        ;j_a t! A            ti         2.  '7 ,?.11 0:9 IIIJ                                    0           t1         /)       A,<     /J.11     /)/)

    l>lnsuffi~ Info.          /'I              Cl I '1              (_j         l.d ( "'I                 1              0      1       ,(q         /J.I, ~.9           /6           p IG '14> t/.d '1.3                                   II           I?        II         c.7 ,1~           (. 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      u
I   7-Psydlological
    8-Unlcnown
    9-0llle,
                              t
                             31
                              'f           3
                                            ti
                                            0          ~/
                                                         1


                                                       I:/         2
                                                                    /JC:

                                                                         ~
                                                                               /) ,I

                                                                    ~.J P.6 t7 ;).fl
                                                                                A.1
                                                                                              II/.

                                                                                              ,.,
                                                                                                           0

                                                                                                           ?
                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                        {)
                                                                                                                                t1
                                                                                                                              .:zr ,n A.P ,., g 38'
                                                                                                                               :1
                                                                                                                                        /) II


                                                                                                                                        /.£
                                                                                                                                                   ,:j_/) II I)


                                                                                                                                                    /J./J !.S           ~
                                                                                                                                                                         si--      ..z..
                                                                                                                                                                                   t)
                                                                                                                                                                                   £
                                                                                                                                                                                               -i..a
                                                                                                                                                                                                    'I 23

                                                                                                                                                                                                   JI
                                                                                                                                                                                                            11.t/
                                                                                                                                                                                                             '1'!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,! q ,.:i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /1.A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .:J<j/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 nr LJ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .f I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .,l


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        t)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ::;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  y~ ']/_ f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .~ u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     d.(J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /J,/J 12/,<'/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      / 7 ~ ,II
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               /. :i




I       Total               :JU If</ ss, I~( lt'U 1111')_                                                fll          .(//    /.JS 1..9'.t. "lo.¥ IM, Iii 'I                      t.9 .2/J bl~ i'1/.J llo&                               II 1          <IS /IJ 72'/ 21.t It?,!.




I        Evaluation
    0-Balloon
                              f;/.5~co;V.Ps -bA//;yuT£J


                              ;:;~
                                   Number

                                            J.Jn
                                                         Per Cent


                                                        9, ) ? f
                                                                                 Number                PerC01I
                           Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total
                                                                                9. 'I ?,,S                67
                                                                                                                     (- ftl      M/lllvres



                                                                                                                       it, /1.:J /(9     1111 11/ /,.
                                                                                                                                                                                 tlv,n, .3'fJ HINOTf'.5
                                                                                                                                                                                 Nunter            Per Cent                Number               PerCmt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      _,.v,;T

                                                                                                                                                                      ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu Total Certain Dooblful Toi~

                                                                                                                                                                        JS         /;2.            Y'7 17i               Cl 71.9           .J/          .:ZS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5TAT£"L7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1t         77      '?9 VI.,;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 vc~ /~4 'f.~ bi J
I   I-Astronomical
    !-Aircraft
    3-LightPh&IOm.
    4-Binls
                             S6
                                  1
                                  7
                                   I
                                             /3 21 2.0 <,? c:z_
                                            StJ. 1/0 13.'l /?,3 Z.7,/
                                             /.J
                                               (J
                                                       ti
                                                     IJ.:L f t'J o,z
                                                        I
                                                                    /. 7 I,(}                    z:r I ,
                                                                                                          311
                                                                                                          /JD


                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                       / J ,jq g/

                                                                                                                       114
                                                                                                                        6
                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                               u
                                                                                                                                          1.c. It. 'i
                                                                                                                                    q,; /1H ~p A
                                                                                                                               7/ -1., !,'I 5 t)
                                                                                                                                 ( 01, J.J ,1.~
                                                                                                                                                                        33
                                                                                                                                                                        tn
                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                         2
                                                                                                                                                                                    /I,
                                                                                                                                                                                   //)
                                                                                                                                                                                   .z
                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                   f9 It.fl
                                                                                                                                                                                                   :JO

                                                                                                                                                                                                    ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                        ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                             <./
                                                                                                                                                                                                             /) ,l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          x'.I 29'.'1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,(J 1//J.?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,H //)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         J./J /.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           7.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        £I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        lK II r! N.'I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2             '?    t'-JJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    v 0.3 ,.,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0 116 (,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /) ~      II
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                              I.A                           ..7.         ..2.                                  I)



I   5-Cloud~ Dus~ etc
    6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
    7-Psychological
                              JO
                                  r,



                                  '
                                               ?

                                               LJ.
                                                   1 tJ.O 11.7 11.7
                                               (> 30 7.ff co 711-
                                                   9 1.2. IA 2.Z.
                                                                                                         3i;
                                                                                                              ~
                                                                                                               I         I
                                                                                                                        I}
                                                                                                                        (?
                                                                                                                                .:2 O:J. /)? /) q
                                                                                                                              1t:::     5/(,
                                                                                                                                   r; _, I 11,/J
                                                                                                                                                    Ill/ {1.e,
                                                                                                                                                             :u
                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                        JI
                                                                                                                                                                         s
                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                   II (,t,
                                                                                                                                                                                                        ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                             /)(


                                                                                                                                                                                                             .,    ('
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         p./J "-~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /),6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         11.<
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 f,.{,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '< I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /31'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Jf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I          (?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0 /",/}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ..<.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '/

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ill
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             tJ.j

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            J'l.7 11.t:J /<f.7

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /.,1is
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               /)_:J




    PrUnkno'MI               ltJ7              {l      IP7 1,{.fl.              tJ t) :2611-             5(6
                                                                                                                        ..
                                                                                                                        0     <2' ~/J.~             llf 1,2/;_</       f.J.7        ,?         '/7 1219 ,:J.O l:r~9 /~/                                  t) 1~1             19'/     t)" N.'1


I   9-0lller


        Total
                              I c;           .3         !'I 3.7 tJ."l
                            .2'11/- t;i. / 11-cs '71./ 1..'/.<f /00. ..,/\<! II I
                                                                                              #,f;;      1,                   JI J,/,,
                                                                                                                              /.I)./
                                                                                                                                                    I.Jf ..r.lJ

                                                                                                                                        '224 "'-/J '/O,:) 16~
                                                                                                                                                                          I'        3              II        ¥. I       1.5 ,S'.C,         3,


                                                                                                                                                                                   fy /P~ 71. 7 2.A3 I/A.I.I, lC1~ I 3.S ..<~, ?9.5 'JA ~ /Ot:J.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         _, vti              n        /J.9 C.,J




I                           r11dt.E

                                   5
                                    Number
                                           ~ 1=.eo,;os
                                                       lll?f


                                                          Per Cent
                                                                       o,e Lt:SS
                                                                                  Number                Per Cent
                                                                                                                     I,-//} 5!oCt7IVP5
                                                                                                                                Number                Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                 II- .?t:J Stco-v;;,s
                                                                                                                                                                              Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3/-60            S/;rt,,vD.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PerCmt



I         Evaluation
    0-Balloon
     l•Astronomical
    2~Aircraft
                            Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doulltfu

                                  0
                                  ;;
                                  Cl           0
                                                I
                                                 ()      ,,,
                                                             7 '1£.0
                                                             ,:)
                                                                    ,:,,()


                                                                       /J./)
                                                                               /7£

                                                                                /?.O
                                                                                    ,.,..,
                                                                                                 d.d
                                                                                             lt7.J
                                                                                                 ll.0
                                                                                                           .2
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                               I)        0
                                                                                                                         2.
                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                   t,


                                                                                                                                   d
                                                                                                                                         /J


                                                                                                                                         //_/)
                                                                                                                                                    /1./J 11,11
                                                                                                                                   r ,0,1 5tJ.d ,,,,.,_o
                                                                                                                                                    0.11 /J,/l           0
                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                             ,
                                                                                                                                                                                     /)

                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                    I  11
                                                                                                                                                                                                    ~ -i.d
                                                                                                                                                                                                    I        /JD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6-0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /J.O ,;t/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7./ 7.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1/          I}



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Total Certain Dwbtful Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /)_,I    AO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1✓~ Ji/7, 1?9 t.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,? c1 Jc/.3 Id~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (),/J




I   3·lighl Phenom.
    4-Birds
    5-Clouds, Dus~ et~
                                  [)
                                  0
                                  0
                                   0
                                               £J
                                                11
                                                t)
                                                         t)
                                                         I)
                                                         I)
                                                             ()      /)A


                                                                     11.0
                                                                       IJ.11
                                                                                iJ.O /'1,/J
                                                                                0.0
                                                                                0.0 o.tJ
                                                                                                 l'!,0
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                         CJ
                                                                                                                         tJ
                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                0 tJ.d
                                                                                                                                 t)
                                                                                                                                 tJ
                                                                                                                                         11/J
                                                                                                                                         12/J
                                                                                                                                                    t).O
                                                                                                                                                    11.d
                                                                                                                                                    C).()
                                                                                                                                                          tJ.d
                                                                                                                                                              /),?

                                                                                                                                                              tJ.4
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         tJ
                                                                                                                                                                         t)
                                                                                                                                                                                     0

                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                        C.
                                                                                                                                                                                                   r}
                                                                                                                                                                                                   {)
                                                                                                                                                                                                    tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                    ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                            n.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             <'./1
                                                                                                                                                                                                             /)./)
                                                                                                                                                                                                            N~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         tf.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        {)./)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I./)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 tU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 tJ,/l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             J</.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ()

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /'I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             J.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             t}.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      tl.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      {)_()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      o.o 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                d.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                a.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OfJ
    6-lnsuffic. Info.                           0                    tM         d.O /)/)                      0          /J      /)      /1/)       ,1.t)    /l /1      2.           0                                  ,n<)                             CJ        (}        O.()
                                                                     ,.,,.
I   7-Psychological
    &-Unknown
    9--0ther
                                   0
                                   0
                                   I
                                               0
                                                t)


                                               {)
                                                        /J
                                                         /)

                                                         I
                                                                     /1./)
                                                                   J? <
                                                                                t7.0 11,(}
                                                                                t/.(J 11.0
                                                                                ,1/1 /2. .5                {)
                                                                                                              ()
                                                                                                              ()
                                                                                                                         ()
                                                                                                                         t)
                                                                                                                        CJ
                                                                                                                                (l
                                                                                                                                /}
                                                                                                                                 /)
                                                                                                                                         11/J
                                                                                                                                         /,/,

                                                                                                                                         ti.{)
                                                                                                                                                   /}.f)
                                                                                                                                                   i?.d ().0
                                                                                                                                                    O.d o d
                                                                                                                                                             o.o          0
                                                                                                                                                                         s-
                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                    t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                    I

                                                                                                                                                                                                    /
                                                                                                                                                                                                             A,/)

                                                                                                                                                                                                    ..s :15:-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                             ?I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7. I ?.I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,1./) 1.t.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /J.tJ    1. I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             //-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              tc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0      t}        o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    c/ 'i1/ o.o l,'>1/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   °I)       /),/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IJ.c)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (},()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (),()




I       Total                     1             (        f{ f/7.5 l-1S ,Ail,                              ,.7           ,;;     II- 'iM ,;.:,.0 ld/J.                 /.:Z          .:?. lt:1 YD lr.':3 f<'I}.                              <            ~          1171v ;zf,                 /Of).




I        Evaluation
    0-Balloon
                             Cl .JFCM/7.5                            b /11/J'YPT10
                            Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total

                                  ..2..
                                          ltlmber


                                                tJ
                                                          PerCmt


                                                        _;7        "10(.       / , /)        l.zu:
                                                                                                               ~ -.JtJ H/IV//T$5



                                                                                                              I)
                                                                                                                     Number
                                                                                                         ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                         0         I     ,11)
                                                                                                                                                 Percent


                                                                                                                                                    tJ.11    tJ.o
                                                                                                                                                                             /J. CD
                                                                                                                                                                             Number
                                                                                                                                                                                               ~/:?
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,V/A/UT~<


                                                                                                                                                                      ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total                       Certain Dooblful Total Certain Doubtful Tot~

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A/4r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Number


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5TArrn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Per Cent


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,j 'H t)_ /) 7..5'

I    l•Astmnomical
    2•Aimaft
    Hight Ph010m.
    4•Birds
                                   I
                                   0
                                    0
                                   tJ
                                                0
                                                0
                                                 0
                                                   v
                                                         d
                                                         I
                                                          I')



                                                         11
                                                                     /),1

                                                                    /J.IJ
                                                                   1 ✓..,
                                                                    ,1 _()
                                                                               /J.(} ;J. tJ
                                                                               0./) t),tJ
                                                                                d.O !Y-:3
                                                                                /J.O 11.0
                                                                                                              t)

                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                              {,
                                                                                                              /)
                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                         CJ
                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                         tJ
                                                                                                                                 II
                                                                                                                                t1
                                                                                                                                I)

                                                                                                                                tJ
                                                                                                                                        ,11./)
                                                                                                                                        t?.O
                                                                                                                                        A.I'/
                                                                                                                                        d.O
                                                                                                                                                    11.0
                                                                                                                                                   ().()
                                                                                                                                                    O.tt
                                                                                                                                                    (}./)
                                                                                                                                                             11.ll
                                                                                                                                                             /J.O
                                                                                                                                                              O.d
                                                                                                                                                             /J.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                              {,
                                                                                                                                                                                                               V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ;z.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                C'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Lt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            tl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               II /~ J 7S 111.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                :? 3.i d O 1.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I   /.'I 0.0 I. 'l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0 {) tJj 11.0 0,/)


I   S.Clouds, Dust. etc.
    6-lnsuffi~ ~lo.
    7-Psydlological
    8-~wn
                                  /?
                                   I
                                   C
                                  ;2.
                                               0
                                               I}
                                               0
                                                0
                                                        tJ
                                                         I
                                                         /l 11. ()
                                                        _,:;, 121,
                                                                    /J,/)
                                                                   1 ✓5
                                                                                t}.O
                                                                               t)./)IY.3
                                                                                0.0 tJ.tJ
                                                                               ,:)./} .;7K{,
                                                                                                 t?.O
                                                                                                           2
                                                                                                              n

                                                                                                              C
                                                                                                              .2..
                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                         {)
                                                                                                                         {)
                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                ::Z St?.tJ /\/1 ~d.~
                                                                                                                                 t)
                                                                                                                                        tJ.d        I?,/)


                                                                                                                                        P./J 11.d ,1.()
                                                                                                                                .:?. .5,11,j . o.o r,..,_O
                                                                                                                                                             ,?, ()


                                                                                                                                                                                               "
                                                                                                                                                                                                   V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /'.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            II
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7          ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /)



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,(:)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7 11.J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    </ <
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   JI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IJ.O



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            :JIJ,9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      tJ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /J.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I. 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /)/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                t'.~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              11:J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7.C.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ::zo. Q

I   9-0ltle,


        Total                     7
                                   I           CJ

                                                 (}
                                                         / ~t/1

                                                        I' /1)1)0
                                                                               /)    _/) /{/-'!



                                                                               /J. d /t7/J,
                                                                                                           tJ

                                                                                                          //
                                                                                                                        0

                                                                                                                         ,j
                                                                                                                                 /) 0.0        tJ. /) d-0


                                                                                                                               + JtJ4.d l).d /00,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            13

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '-/'x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  / <!      7,( I


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,:3 9,1_1,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      tJ.0 ~~<

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     9.'I' l1J(J.


I                                                                                                                                                 157

I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                         .J 5n:.OAIU.5 ANu Les,
                                                                                   lf,;/8'
                                                                                                    tf'-lt?             SCt:ONPJ                                  //-J/J .5CCP,,.,P5                                          3/-/o 5/?C0A/OS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                        rt,mbe,                         PerCmt                      Per Cent
                                                                                                        Number               Number                Per Cent                Number                Per Cent
         Enluation
    ~a.noon
    1-Asbonomical
                         Certan Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total t;ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tot~


                                r
                                 I          0
                                           <;{'
                                                           I
                                                      I..-. '16.d
                                                                 -lo       d/J
                                                                           1.1.d
                                                                                     "· 0
                                                                                    r;.,
                                                                                                tJ
                                                                                                ~           ::1
                                                                                                               I       I        I .ii     7-J
                                                                                                                        C. ::n., Jt/~ 11lfJ
                                                                                                                                                   7.1        t)

                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                    .., o.o :JJ 1 n
                                                                                                                                                                                     J o.o JI .J //./                   p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I.         I)



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 " d2..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       O.Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        o.u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (}./)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      () 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (U
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /J.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
    2-Aircraft              2              0               ~     9.d       ii.I)     8.1        0           0           0 0.1 0.0 o.o                         I           0          I II./ 0.0 /I. I                  ;:,_     0                      <'..oA        oo 5'0.()
3-Li&frtPh•m.
4-Birds
~Cloods, Dus~ etc.
                                 I

                                ;,
                                    I
                                           0
                                            ()
                                            0
                                                           I 11.6
                                                           I 1/,d
                                                          /j     O.()
                                                                           ,1 "
                                                                           tJ.I)
                                                                           /}.()
                                                                                     1/.0
                                                                                     /.f.O
                                                                                     9. 0
                                                                                               0
                                                                                                p
                                                                                                I)
                                                                                                           .z
                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                       ,:J
                                                                                                                       ,1
                                                                                                                       /)
                                                                                                                            o.O /'{-. J /'1..1
                                                                                                                                n.O       Q.Q
                                                                                                                                o.o o.o o.O
                                                                                                                                                  o.o
                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                              I)
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                           0


                                                                                                                                                                          c)
                                                                                                                                                                                    tJ (J.O 0.0 0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                    /)

                                                                                                                                                                                    ~
                                                                                                                                                                                       o.o 0. 0 o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                         OJI        o. Q 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        {)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I)



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Q./J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        oJ 10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Q. 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
6-lnsvffic.lnfo.            ;i.            D              .2 1./J          I\ ll     8.o        I           tJ         J        1./       0.0 7. I            I            D        I    Ill        o.Q /I.I            I        D        I           .?(.O           q.o l'JH
    l•Psycillloaical
    I-Unknown
9-0llle,
                                 (,

                                I.I-
                                /"
                                            0
                                           ()
                                             I
                                                           IS o.o
                                                          </ lh_/) o. 0 16.0
                                                          I A.0 t/.o '1.0
                                                                           ,:J/J     0 /J       r.
                                                                                               ../l
                                                                                                I,
                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                       /)

                                                                                                                       t/ ')fl.,
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                o.o o.O o.o
                                                                                                                                 o.o
                                                                                                                                          o.o '9./,
                                                                                                                                          0.0     o.o
                                                                                                                                                             3
                                                                                                                                                              /)


                                                                                                                                                              I)
                                                                                                                                                                        -o
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                    tJ 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                    3 SJ.g
                                                                                                                                                                                    I    O.P /J. / JI./
                                                                                                                                                                                                        0. 0   o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0 33.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        v
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I ~ro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       11.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       {).O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      QA P.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       D.4 q.Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0./J '15'.P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
i       Total             /(,,              9             7{     LY.I     1,.a /00.            9               ,(      /IL ilc/3 ~(7 100.                   _,(           y         9 ',,i: </Y.'I /IQ.                ,j        6         JI._ 11~.o                0.0 NO.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
         Evaluation
                          GI S.i=-cc,vos - S/t111vur;:.5
                                 Number                Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                ,{-3,() N
                                                                                                     PerCmt
                                                                                                                                 ·'°/,IT$~
                                                                                                                             Hunter                PerCait
                                                                                                                                                                      t:Jvefl 3' _?? H/,UµTE 5
                                                                                                                                                                           Number               PerC01t
                         Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doublful Total Certain Ooobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu Total Certain Doobllul Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Mr              5 ,..., T",E_;:,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
    0-Balloon                    I              I            JI.I //./ 'ln.                     I                      S         ,1 u.1 33.l                  ,t;         ()        11 S/1/J o.o S'O. n                                           1    '77 1 I 1P. ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '
                                                           .;2                                              II-                                                                                                                     :,_
    l·A-ical
    2-Ailtllft
    Hiptf'llenom.
                                ?
                                0
                                 I

                                            0
                                                0
                                                  I          11, I J/. I 27-J.
                                                          .;'l
                                                          1 JU o.O JJ.3
                                                          (J 0.0      od Q.O
                                                                                                If
                                                                                                I
                                                                                                I
                                                                                                           0

                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                        ( 2,.1       'Jt.
                                                                                                                       :? 1..7 &. 7 /J.11
                                                                                                                        I f..7 O.d '-7
                                                                                                                                          /J.P                f'


                                                                                                                                                              ()
                                                                                                                                                                           ~
                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                           11
                                                                                                                                                                                    II- :n.~ 0./J H.J 10
                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                    ()
                                                                                                                                                                                          ~


                                                                                                                                                                                         11.d
                                                                                                                                                                                              ,,    /).Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                    o.P O.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                               B-3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /(" .2S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /('/ 1 ~ I 38.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1. 7   . I ;O. 8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OP /. '{ /.,;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
    4-Birds                     /)          0              ()     p_q       a, o.o              t)          I           I o.o              1..7   t.7                               tJ              I. 11 v.n                                 -;                      J. / /./.(,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                              {)          ,I)            /_(!                           I       2.                     /.5
    ~loud~ Dus~ el~         If             1'             tJ      0.0       o.Q      O.(J       (J          0           /)      O.Q       ().0    o.P        (J           cJ        I)    d.11      /J. 0      O.P      /)       {)           ()       Q./J           o.o P. 0
    6-lnsuffic.lnfo.            I           /)             I     I/. I o.o          //. I        I             ,,-;         I   6-7 O.P           n          t,           0         /)   IJ.IJ      o., o.p            /I)          tJ I t'J           tH Q.f} If.II
    7-Psycholoaical         ,1             ;J             /)     O.d       O.Q 0.0              I)             cJ        0      o.o 0.0           (}. /)     /            ,1         I    0: ~ n. fJ           8.3      ,;       C,           /)       o.o           o. () (/./)
                                                           I Ill           O.d If. I                                                              O.~                                                          o.o                            ,;                     0. () t, 'l.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
    &-Unknown                I              0                                                   0              0        (J      0. 0      Q. (1              d             tJ       (J    00 (}./)                      fl.      0                     t..J
    9-0tller                ()               0            f)      o.,      Q.O 0-#             /,)             I        I       0. 0     n t.1               /j            /I       I)   o.o D. () o.O                  ;        4-           1         ,j{.         t. 1. JO.$
        Total               'l              .).             9 77,f ;i;i, 2. ,oo.               fl              7 /.5" [{"~.3 <It:. 1 /IQ.                   /,:            {)      /A 1/t>tJ./J ,1.1) Jdl.            '39 ;/.7 •S sv; 'i/S /OP.


                          5'S.ec:oNP5 4N.ULF55
                                                      '
                                                                           £ Y,4 L LI,4 :r JL)/t/
                                                                            lf~P
                                                                                                                       (lF


                                                                                                   b -/,;:? s,1;c;:,,vo5                                          / / -3tJ .5EC£>A/P5                                         3/-t.(l                 5fCt:INP5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                 Number                 Per Cent                 Number                Per Cent                Nunler                PerCait                 Number               PerCmt
         Evaluation      Certain OoubtfuI Total Certain Doubtfu I Total Certain llod>tful Total Certain Ooobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu Total Certain Oooblful Total
    0-Balloon                 tJ    t)      4     (J.I)      /1.d  Qd        0       0           /J.P     11~ /),(J    ,,   z;     /)    0      00             0. p       0      0     1J   (J.Q    o.o  0 0.0                                                        o.
    I-Astronomical          £              ,6 LJ 'l.1                      ll~ 91.f:J           /)             ::z.    .;l.     0.1      28., :li.6          3            3         C, 160 :'tl!O ,g_o                  ":{         0         ~:as:o O.P ?5.1
    2-AircraN                   I)         :,_ ~ O.P                                 7.'/       C,             I       I        tl.O     Ii/. 3 ll/.3             J        0        .:? _?M   o.a 20.P                  ?.          /)     .2 '1,. 1 0.1 /t-7

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                            :J '
    l•Liaflt Ptumm.          t:J            0              ()    d.4        o., d. 4            /)         0           ()  td              p. Q I.I           0            0         ()  O.d g.q o.,                    /J           t'     0    o.o q.(I o.'
    4-Birds                     0            I             I o.P            14 I.Jf             rJ          0           II d.d            p.d     O(J         Ci           0        tJ 00 q_l) IJ.0                     7        t?        .2 fl. 7  O.t1 //..7
    5-Cloud~ Dus~ et~           /)          /,J            0      d.0      M 0.0                 0              ()      0 o.Q             I).(/    OP             t)       0         0 o.o O.tJ 0-0                    CJ           I')       I o.J q.Q o.O
    6-lnsuffic.lnfo.        LJ              t)             </     (1       Q.0 5'.11                                    I lt/'i           /l.P /~.3                                  I /AA 00 /U                        I                   I "- "'I 0.d fl. 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                    I          t?                                                 I        0                                                        0
                                                                 0.0       u 0.11                                          11.d           d-1 0-P                                        0.0 O(J o.,                                           o.u o-d o.o
    7-Psycholoaical
    1-Unkno.,
                             0
                                I')
                                             {)

                                             0
                                                           ()
                                                          t?      ()_0      o.P I.O
                                                                            0,(/ O.d
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                2           0
                                                                                                               I')

                                                                                                                       "
                                                                                                                       2        ?f ~      o.o IJ.8.1,
                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                  I       0
                                                                                                                                                                           0        /)

                                                                                                                                                                                     I !,ui 0.0 /P.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,I.          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0     d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           'i 11 ~ o.o 33."3
    9-0ltler                0              /)              il    4,1)                              I        t>          I       '"·:      Q.0 ///.3           ;:,         CJ         0 o.o    QO 0.0                   {)        0         ij           0,0           0.0 Q.O

        Total             Ill            .f"'? f,9 ,,; ! "•S /OP,                              ,f
                                                                                                               '
                                                                                                                       -:, ~11 'l:l.'! Ill.                   1            :r      JIJ 'ld.ll      ~.()
                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                               /Ill   /:7        /J       12          /AA    0 If.II          m.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
         Evaluatioa
    0-S,lloon
                          6/S.e:t"-ONP<


                                (.,
                                        -
                         Cerllin Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                  I        7
                                                                 S/41,,,.yvTf.<'


                                                                 7,j
                                                                         PerCmt

                                                                            'J.1 ircr         .2
                                                                                                   {;- JtJ ,< /,"• •rE~
                                                                                                    Number
                                                                                             ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                           ;z_         ,;
                                                                                                                          Per Cent

                                                                                                                                i..3    3-3 1r,
                                                                                                                                                                  ,:::?VE"R
                                                                                                                                                                       Number
                                                                                                                                                                                    _;J,J H/,,VPT'£'5
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Per Cent                     Number
                                                                                                                                                           ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Oooblful Total Certain Doubtful Tota
                                                                                                                                                             I)            II       d o.O OJI Oil ."?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,rft,r



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                15  ~ '3 q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5,r.,---

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '.3.'7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Per Cent


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      oo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
    l·Astnmollical
    2·Aircrafl
    3-Li&lrtf'llenoa.
                            t)



                             tJ
                                -:3          _,
                                              0
                                                ~         ti Q.P J'l.i /Id
                                                          .5 Ill 1,'/ /$.'5
                                                            d    o.P       0.,       o.. o
                                                                                               ::l
                                                                                                3
                                                                                               II
                                                                                                               /)



                                                                                                                t
                                                                                                                   ]
                                                                                                                        1       ):J
                                                                                                                        /,. I <-S 17.5
                                                                                                                        I)      Oil
                                                                                                                                      < Q.0 /J.<
                                                                                                                                         (J.P
                                                                                                                                                  )5e
                                                                                                                                                  Q./J
                                                                                                                                                             '<1
                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                             0             0
                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                    I/ :77~ 'I.I 3£.ii /l,
                                                                                                                                                                                    I 0 O C/.r '/. I 3
                                                                                                                                                                                    ()    ().Q          o.O     o.o    (l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ;y' 1() 21 I /?.</ ?,'/.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3 II 111 < 3_q !'f.'1-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  d 0   (}_(/ (}.0 (}.U
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,j o.o o,O 9.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
_
    I-Birds                  t)             I)                   q}        o.Q       0.0       /)              0       0        (J_q      o.O O,d            0             0        ti    Q.4           (}_q   o.o     0         /)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                          ,?
    ~Clouds, Dus~ el~        /)             ll            11     0-P       Q,Q       0 .Q       /J             I)      rJ       o.u       0 q. 0-0            C,           0       ,1     o.d           0.'    u       tJ        /J        ~            (),0          u       o.O
    4-lnsaffi~ lllfo.           L            0             r. ,n 0.0 n1                        .:;             ()      ~        <1'1      (10     f.3         I            I?       I    '7./           0.0 'f.l 17               0       11           ,;l/          9.0 7:l-4
    .                                                            o.o u               o.u                                        ,;_.., r;.P JU.                                         o_q             o.o  Q.0 .:;


-
    7-Psycilllo&ical         0              /)            rJ                                    I           {)          /                                    0            0        ()                                            0        ~            :J,(,,        1/.P 'H
                                                          I/ I <ft o.O II/.~                   ?            0           1 ,2Q1            O.Q :iu             <I                    I/ Vt/              0.0 ,t.~ I/                       1/ J'/(                    0.0 /4.'5
                             "              0                                                                                                                              /)                                                    t)



        Total
                            I

                        1.2 i,
                                            /)            I ~- O.P '3.7

                                            7 ..:21 ?'I.I ?\'q !OP.                          /9
                                                                                               I            /)          I       ✓.;1..

                                                                                                           5 :JV 119..; 211.1 /10.
                                                                                                                                          Q.0 If~             J

                                                                                                                                                              q           ~
                                                                                                                                                                           0        I 'I.!              Q_O 1.,   .::;

                                                                                                                                                                                   II qJ 1 /$2 /di .<'I 17 7{;, 71 6 ,7J.4 Ill.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 n         2           7.£            o./1 'H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                         158
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
I
I
I                                ,--$,£CP,..-P.) ANP LJ;SS
                                           lllmber            PerC01I
                                                                                                     £-/t!J S£CIJNPS
                                                                                                    Number                PerC01I                 Number
                                                                                                                                                             //-3,t;J
                                                                                                                                                                        Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                S&C.DNPS
                                                                                                                                                                                                Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3/-60 ..j,=CDIYPS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Per Cent



I
            Evaluation          Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total                ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total ~ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tot~
    0-Balloon
    'l-Astrooomial                Ill
                                     I
                                              .,
                                               0         J s:o /1,t, S,I)
                                                       ;., ftJ.~         ,, .,,,
                                                                     17,,,,P
                                                                                               tJ
                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                       ,ap
                                                                                                         ,,tl .30 //,J '!1,,
                                                                                                                         tJ.P
                                                                                                                              ~tJ.J
                                                                                                                                           /}, /J     I')
                                                                                                                                                      -4         I
                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                    I /7/,, ,f,? £~
                                                                                                                                                                   7 '17,S £., /_L~,
                                                                                                                                                               .z_ -6 2S;JJ 12,S 3'/25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            //,/  /?I, //,/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IJ,o 4n "'~"
    !2-Aircraft                     I         /l         I .£J /J./7 S-:tJ                     3        CJ     .3 '11./J ,1,/J S-/ll                 If                                                          1          ~        ,:L 72,).            t'-tJ '12,).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     v IJ.l
I   3-Li&hl Ptieaom.
    4•8irds
    5-Clouds. Dust. etc.
    6-lnsuffic. Info.
                                    /l
                                    tJ
                                    (J
                                     ?
                                              tJ
                                              tJ
                                               /)

                                               tl
                                                        "   tJ.P /1.P ti.11
                                                        tJ M t?.P t),p
                                                        t) 17.P    tJj) /J./J
                                                        .2. ltJ.P /J,/J l/..1,<'-
                                                                                               t)
                                                                                               /l
                                                                                               /)
                                                                                              tJ
                                                                                                        tJ
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                        a
                                                                                                        IJ
                                                                                                               0 17.t) tJ. /l ()./J
                                                                                                               ;J CJ.P /lP
                                                                                                               /)
                                                                                                               {/
                                                                                                                      ,1.IJ J)./J
                                                                                                                   IJ.t t!IJ dJJ
                                                                                                                                           ~"
                                                                                                                                           (}_I,
                                                                                                                                                     I}
                                                                                                                                                     /}

                                                                                                                                                     tJ
                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                               ~
                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                ~  /J l'J,I, t?.IJ ,M
                                                                                                                                                                         ~
                                                                                                                                                                        C t'-1
                                                                                                                                                                                  ,?./1 IJ,/l /J.t)
                                                                                                                                                                                       t1.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                         I £.2 tJ. /J i. 1
                                                                                                                                                                                             ~"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 tl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                tJ         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            tl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           t:J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,:;J tf.t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,1.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            tl./1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /J,t, ,1.1')
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         t'J,P tJ./J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4/J tJ..1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         tJ.t) /J.I)


I       7,Psycllllogical
    11-Unkmwn
    9-0a,.,
                                   0
                                    I
                                   ,::.?
                                               tJ
                                               tJ
                                              tJ
                                                         tl t).t, £!,t) JJ./J
                                                         I £/? JU) _,_/)
                                                         tl /J,t, ti.P a;
                                                                                               tJ
                                                                                               (J
                                                                                               /J
                                                                                                       t?
                                                                                                       tJ
                                                                                                        t?
                                                                                                               t? tJ.tJ tl./l l)tJ
                                                                                                               ;J CJ.I? t:1,!) tl.t
                                                                                                                f) t?./J t1tJ /f.1,
                                                                                                                                                     17
                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                               tJ
                                                                                                                                                               t}
                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                        tJ 17,/J "/J tJ,;J
                                                                                                                                                                        I        ,(.1_
                                                                                                                                                                        tJ tU t2P a£}
                                                                                                                                                                                              a; ,(1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                /')
                                                                                                                                                                                                                3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            t}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0 ;J.f)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3 3~3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I //,/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         11. /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0./J 3?3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I'? /J

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         tJ.t) /I.I



I          Total                IS'           .f" .t./J 7.S:/l 'i1,s;p IL'/l.                 #        2- tJ ~.(J 33..Y //JP. II                              4- /,f 17..r...? :ZS:tJ /IJ4                      7         -2-       f 77-i /1-2.2 IA1.




I   I Evaluation
        0-Balloon
                                ti S'.ECPN&>S' - F ,,/1,f//Vt/TffS

                                    Lf
                                           Number


                                                   I
                                                                        Per Cent
                                                                                                     ,5-3t? M/AIVTF.S'
                                                                                                      Number

                                                                                                                      1~
                                                                                                                                Per Cent
                                                                                                                                      Nunler


                                                                                                                                    S:/ ,,2."'
                                                                                                                                                      t?v,r;--.,, .St:J M/Y#TffS
                                Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain o... blful Total ~ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain lloublfu

                                          .7.fl /3, 9 r S' II.I                                         :z_ II                                       .J
                                                                                                                                                            Per Cent


                                                                                                                                                                ~        3 117,3
                                                                                                                                                                                     Number

                                                                                                                                                                                              IJ./) 7'72 JI.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /½rSnrr.t>


                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I J 5:b /,/j zo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Total Certain llcllbtful Total


                                                                                                                                   ,u S:I .2- I
I       I-Astronomical
    2·Aircralt
    3-Li&htPhlllOlll
                       L-1
                                 4- //,/ l)tJ I/. I 2..
                                   .4         cJ
                                ,.- //, I 2.1 113.7 3
                                              I
                        r. 0 0 tJ.t t1.tJ l< tl I
                                0 ~o /).v /1/) tJ
                                                                                                        3
                                                                                                         ,?


                                                                                                         ()    0
                                                                                                                2      5;/
                                                                                                                c 7,? 7.7 l1s-a
                                                                                                               ()
                                                                                                                      t?.O        (),O t?. t)
                                                                                                                                   ao /?. t)
                                                                                                                                                     /}
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                      0        ;z
                                                                                                                                                                tJ
                                                                                                                                                                ,()
                                                                                                                                                                        3

                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                            J
                                                                                                                                                                                 /1.'1

                                                                                                                                                                                  ;7,()
                                                                                                                                                                                          9,/ l::2!'7,3 /7
                                                                                                                                                                                  ,1,t) Jf.2 /tr, 13
                                                                                                                                                                                             tJ. {J ,1,JJ I) ,::J ,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7 '7/1 ;..3,1, q, '} ?'?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3' N /~I 47 ;1,7,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             11.t        t?,t)    /J/1
    4-Birds             0   0                                                                           t?            P.tJ                                              0         /)./)       tJ.P /J.tJ ~- I} {/                            t:J.()      tJ.0 t?./J

I   5-Cloud~ Dus~ el~
    6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
    7-Psychological
                       3
                        c 0 0 tJ. () /)_/) 0./) ()
                        I
                             c? 3 '3:_j (J.t? 13 3
                            0 I z.r t?.P 2,'l I
                                                                                                        ,1
                                                                                                        t)
                                                                                                         17
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               3
                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                      ;J, 0
                                                                                                                      7.7 P.I) 7?
                                                                                                                      7J
                                                                                                                                   /l.0 /J.O

                                                                                                                                   ,ti) ,Jj
                                                                                                                                                     0

                                                                                                                                                     C
                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                     ;z
                                                                                                                                                                tJ 0
                                                                                                                                                                /}
                                                                                                                                                                ;J
                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                        tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                  /1.P O.tJ L'J."
                                                                                                                                                                                  f:/
                                                                                                                                                                                  /.{J
                                                                                                                                                                                              ;JI)
                                                                                                                                                                                             tJ.tJ /J/'J
                                                                                                                                                                                                        u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                /£
                                                                                                                                                                                                                (J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           t}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0         ~/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /I, 2:z.2 /1/1 7?,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           t? 0    M /J./) tl,t,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I). t? 0.0



    8-UnknoMI         13 0 13 36"./ M JI'./ /3                                                          t) 13 33..!              /). /J 3?.3                   ,,;J     ~ /1'7                ,1,f) If. 7       9         t? '7 12,5 tJ./) I..?.•

I   9-0fller


    I      Total
                        2  3    S' 5;£ 1.3 I J.9

                                31
                                                      I
                                              S' 3£ '{t, I I.J.'l //J4 3:L
                                                                                                       ,2- 3 2.1

                                                                                                         7 3'! 1,2.J /7,? /tJ~
                                                                                                                                 s;; 7.?            ;,1

                                                                                                                                                     t' 3
                                                                                                                                                                t?      0 t),/}               11.t f),/)

                                                                                                                                                                        II 7-<'.7 127,3 /M 6/ //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.. ,::J           2.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   71
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,Z,S'        £}_() :Z.i


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '/tl.7 IS:3 /~a


I                                S-Si:f'JJ,yP..< ""P L$3s
                                                                             Et/ALt/AT/tJA/
                                                                               ,9~,
                                                                                                    £-$        S£"C.IJ,Y,?.S'                                //-_3_,0 0#DKP~                                         3/-£'0 S. CONPS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ✓




    I Evaluation                        Number                Per Cent                Number                Per Cent                                          Nunter                       Per Cent                       Number                Per Cent


I       0.Balloon
        I-Astronomical
        2-Airaaft
                                Certain Doubtful Total Certain DoubtfuI Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total

                                    tJ
                                    ~
                                    I
                                               t7 ,:? M t?.P tJ.t
                                              ,2 /t} !i'.13 IJ,3' (;~,/
                                              C'        I      £7         f),tJ    £.;
                                                                                               v
                                                                                               3
                                                                                               I
                                                                                                         tJ 0
                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                 12/J tW JJ,/)
                                                                                                            3 1,.t!,J_ t).;J l;7} I
                                                                                                        /J I 1/.a (),t} 11£?
                                                                                                                                                    ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Cert.in Doubtfu




                                                                                                                                                     3
                                                                                                                                                      (J
                                                                                                                                                      3
                                                                                                                                                                (J   tJ tl~ /JP tl.t {)
                                                                                                                                                                 tJ 3 1?7-S' /;1,I) In·.; 0
                                                                                                                                                                0 5 ?'7,5 tJ,tJ 3'7~ 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Total Certain llcllbtful Total


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,t;J

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .II lh/Ul
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,J_p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /).ti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           At? tW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '2JJ,/) Ul,/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '?JJ,/) 'II.P



I       3-Li&hl PhenoiD.
        4-Birds
        5-Clouds, l)ist. etc.
                                   /?
                                    {)
                                   tJ
                                              17
                                              0
                                              tJ,tJ tJ.,1 ao
                                              0
                                                       ,::?
                                                        /)

                                                        0
                                                               ,1.I}
                                                               /J.{J
                                                                           tJ.tJ t?,t
                                                                          t'.O ;?_J,
                                                                                               /}
                                                                                              t)
                                                                                              0
                                                                                                        ,0   t? /?.I) ~{) ~/}
                                                                                                       /l t? t!.P (/.t) ().t)
                                                                                                        t? (? /J.IJ /1.tl (J.tJ
                                                                                                                                                     b

                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                      J?
                                                                                                                                                                t}   0 ().t} M /l,IJ tJ
                                                                                                                                                                I I lt'.i? as 112.J ,1
                                                                                                                                                                0       0        f),t)        tJ. I)    (}.fJ    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,::?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    tJ       P.t>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ap
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /)I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          tJ,tJ tJ.b
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /?,() tJ.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /J.P /),0
        6--Jnsuffic.lnfo.          tJ t) C, c:.c t?.P IJ.,1                                   t)        0 0 ,_,,p t?.tJ (J.I}                        C)        t)       0         /J.t}      ,1.tJ /)./J         ()        t:?     0          tJ_{J       P.C tJ.O

I       7-Psychological
        8-UnknD'MI
        9-0ther
                                   p
                                    t:? tJ 0 /J.t ,:J.,1 tJ.L,
                                        0  u 1,(,J d,1
                                   tJ ,::? £! t).tJ t!.tJ tJ.P
                                                                                   ,,,,.,, /)7
                                                                                               {)
                                                                                                       /)   /)  ,1.p /,,;J t)t}
                                                                                                       ;:? 7- I ?n tl.tJ 31,3
                                                                                                       CJ 0 ,:J./J 1/./) {).P
                                                                                                                                                      tJ tJ
                                                                                                                                                      I tJ I
                                                                                                                                                      tJ t? 0
                                                                                                                                                                        t}        /J.j
                                                                                                                                                                                 /7.~
                                                                                                                                                                                  ..1.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                             /J,/} tJ./l

                                                                                                                                                                                              ~" tJ.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                  12.J
                                                                                                                                                                                              tJ.t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                t:J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,t;J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              tJ_()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /1,/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /J.P t?o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          {/.{J p,I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /J.P M


I          Totol                13           _2_       /S lf!(J /3.3 I.ft?                    6        t?      6 It"-&            .I.I) /..?JJ.      7         I        'l       77.f' /,Z,j Wti                3         .2.      s        £0,P 1/P,J; 1/{JP.




I            Evaluation
        0-Balloon
                                If'I S,c-,-, p,y,:,.5 -

                                Ce,lain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtf\11 Total
                                    ~
                                           -     I     1
                                                              s-/fhNNTF'
                                                              Per Cent


                                                                $1,7 11.3 /.J.{}
                                                                                                     h-3/J A,
                                                                                                     Number


                                                                                                               2                   (),{,
                                                                                                                                                 Nu-
                                                                                                                                                      tJ1.1rR

                                                                                             ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total i:,min Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tot~
                                                                                               2-        I)            t.7
                                                                                                                          Per Cent


                                                                                                                                           i'.?          I       tJ I
                                                                                                                                                                        :?.t? IV
                                                                                                                                                                       Percent


                                                                                                                                                                                 /.,7,f
                                                                                                                                                                                                -..,s
                                                                                                                                                                                               Number


                                                                                                                                                                                              {).,:?   as        It
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Al.or l'nr,1,p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Per Cent


                                                                                                                                                                                                                           :z .6             '12 II,/ /2.3

I       l-Ast1t1nomical
        2-Aircraft
        Hi&hl Ph...,.
        4--Birds
                                   0
                                   3
                                   t?
                                   I?
                                              I
                                               I
                                                 /


                                              17 r)
                                                       p
                                                        I
                                                        I
                                                               ,:J.t) J/-. '? 4. 'l
                                                              13.C. .i,O I?,
                                                               ,;?.() 4,3 /f.3
                                                               ,1.tJ       /J./J   ,::J,t)     0
                                                                                                'I
                                                                                               .2.
                                                                                                I       tl
                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                        /I-

                                                                                                        ()
                                                                                                               L'I- l:?O
                                                                                                               15 f.7 /7,/J U.,/
                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                               t?
                                                                                                                      ,:;.:,,
                                                                                                                      (),t?
                                                                                                                                   a.? 11,,


                                                                                                                                  ~v .113
                                                                                                                                   t.1.0 t?,tJ
                                                                                                                                                      tJ
                                                                                                                                                     C7
                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                         I      tJ

                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                    /

                                                                                                                                                                 Cl 0
                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                        .2. /25' /.:ZS 12s;O
                                                                                                                                                                            I    l;2,S
                                                                                                                                                                                  tl.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                  tJ.o
                                                                                                                                                                                             /P.0 V.:z.J'
                                                                                                                                                                                              /J.0 /J,O
                                                                                                                                                                                              ,ti) /).O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 :J_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ;, 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     'f     ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   II
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             b./ /£.3 ,;;a,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LI,/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             tJ,t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         II,/  Cz
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IJ.-" 2.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (),tJ ;J.n


I       5-Clouds, Dus~ el~
        6-lnsuffic. • .,_

        7-Psyclll~&ical
        I-Unknown
                                   0

                                    /)
                                  //)
                                     /
                                              0 0
                                              /)
                                              I
                                              0
                                                       I
                                                        I
                                                               tl,O
                                                               11-.3
                                                             tJ.~ 1/,.J 4.3
                                                                           tJ.o t!.O
                                                                          /J.I)


                                                       /.t? /J.:Jl.j (),,P 'i/.3.J
                                                                                   /f.1
                                                                                               t)
                                                                                               I
                                                                                               tJ
                                                                                               £
                                                                                                        LP
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                         t?
                                                                                                        t?
                                                                                                               I'}
                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                               t)
                                                                                                               6 U./
                                                                                                                      ;J.jJ

                                                                                                                      J./.1
                                                                                                                      tJ,tJ
                                                                                                                                  tJ.tJ /J,I)
                                                                                                                                  tJ.O a..
                                                                                                                                  (),/) ~./}
                                                                                                                                  /),t) 1'2L I
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                    ,Z
                                                                                                                                                     t?
                                                                                                                                                    .:2
                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                               /.?
                                                                                                                                                               t?
                                                                                                                                                               .t?
                                                                                                                                                                        /J         J'.P /l,I) /.?
                                                                                                                                                                                  t?.P
                                                                                                                                                                        ,2 :;.r,t, J?.I) ,1S.I) /tl
                                                                                                                                                                        t? /),tJ o.v tl./J
                                                                                                                                                                        2 1'21;',0 (},/) 125':~ 13
                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   C)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             tJ.t? 17.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            'M,//
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I 2.0 1),/J ?II
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I' 13 •US /).() l~J'.S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ()~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CJ.tJ 7/}t,




I       ,-oa,.,


           Total                /(
                                    :z       0          7      If,        -1./l 'l,l

                                             r ,,1...3 7(.3 J./. 7 ftJIJ. If
                                                                                               .:/     ,:;J    3     '/3,/)


                                                                                                        .r .u 71,.J ,2..1,7 Vtl/-1
                                                                                                                                   /),t) /3./)      t?

                                                                                                                                                     7
                                                                                                                                                               £)


                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                        tl   o.o P.P ()_/) 3
                                                                                                                                                                        Jr 6lS /,:ZS //)/J, 97 /2 //9 7,;S ~5 /t't?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /.? 3   ,t./ tJ.t) £.I




I                                                                                                                                 159

I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                       ..,m..a.,,.A...


                             S
                                   L,._l,_         ___,_ll<..,t....,U~----'=E'-'t',c.a.'d""L'-"v>a.!1.LV,'-"Z''-"A/'-------"'eFc..____.(/,"'~~1/~r-


                                       'i'fCCWL?~ 4/Vn LEsr
                                                                                    ds2.,
                                                                                                       6-//J        J',:,-,-.,,11,ns
                                                                                                                                                      S/6/IT/tf/GS


                                                                                                                                                              l/-?/J
                                                                                                                                                                                 4r d,f/,eAr/CJ,f/

                                                                                                                                                                            I'1;/'/)11/n~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     t2r   S-/G#r-//Yc;,

                                                                                                                                                                                                             3/-//J ,(1 ,{!P,l,'l?S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                       Number            Per Cent                Number                Per Cent                                               Number               Per Cent                Number                Per Cent
         Evaluation
,O.Balloon
'l-Astranomical
I
                           Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total


                             1U
                                  ;- ,f ;J.S ~3 2.'i 3
                                  I
                                "JP l;ip .qq 3 IS", f 54.1 .26
                                                                                                          J 6 3. I          t.2 j/..
                                                                                                        IS- Ill .26.J IY.3 JI.a :Z.3
                                                                                                                                      ·o
                                                                                                                                                      ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Dooblful Total Certain Doubtful JTol~

                                                                                                                                                                  7 II
                                                                                                                                                                 '1
                                                                                                                                                                           .t.5 43 t.1
                                                                                                                                                                       ?7 1#3   s;/ 19,f It)
                                                                                                                                                                                             ~ //) If {.3 19 /kl Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                 I/ I// 7.'t 3'.Z '/I.I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
!2-Aircraft                 1'1 2/ /# V          9.£ 11'1.3 16                                          I~ :zt /£.3 ltJ. ., ?L_~ 31?                            :;>c, M IJU IU :/7,2 ;2). ;2.t? /1-2 /7,S 15.9 33.IJ
    3-LiPI PhfflOm.
4-Birds
    S-Clouds, Dust, etc.
                              I
                              I
                             /)
                                 ;z... 3 tH t1_q I. II I
                                 3
                                  I
                                       JI /JS /. II I/. '1 t)
                                       I t:J.0 tJS /).) tJ
                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                           ,?
                                                                                                              I 1.P t),/) /,/J I
                                                                                                             I tJ.!) /,0 /,/)      I
                                                                                                                   tJ JJ. t /).!) tJ.£ {}
                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                  {}
                                                                                                                                                                       2. .tl.h t?.6 1.2. tJ
                                                                                                                                                                       I  P.• ~/} l?.C
                                                                                                                                                                 :L .z ~./J 1.2 /7 0
                                                                                                                                                                                            3  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                z 2. t?.ll /,£ /.t
                                                                                                                                                                                                t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ;'/- :2,4 o,r 3,.1.
                                                                                                                                                                                                     t)     /),0 /1.ll ~o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
    6-lnsuHic. Info.        II   tJ I/ t;,O ll./J c;-;o 6                                                 CJ       h 6.1 0./J b.l II                             t:' // 1£1? /J.() 6,g      9 t? 9          7/    tl.O 7 /
    7-Psydlolo~cal
    8-Uwown
    9-0tlle,
                               2
                            :z.;z
                                e
                                             ;:, :z
                                             /,J
                                             :z_
                                                             1H
                                                        77 Ii/) O
                                                        //)      ?, 7
                                                                           ~c tJ.9
                                                                            0,/) /JJ.P
                                                                           t?.t?     11 L
                                                                                                r)
                                                                                               /j'
                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                          cJ       C)
                                                                                                          /? I,/ 16,3
                                                                                                           t)      I
                                                                                                                      tJ. I) M t)./) ~

                                                                                                                            /,/,
                                                                                                                                      0,(J /,5.3 2.7
                                                                                                                                      M f,,J II-
                                                                                                                                                                  I £ '3./ ~J; ?.7 .2.- ,t) :z. /,i tUl /£
                                                                                                                                                                !) 1-27 LI£. i tJ.O 11£.K 3:Z. ,t? 'i'Z l.;25,"4 tJ.O :Z.5./J
                                                                                                                                                                  -;-- 9' 2S 3,1 s;£ I ;z_ 3 "-'i' /,£ 2.11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
        Total              IS-I          h' ;utJ lts.9 '11/ /,NJ, tf                                     '2_'1   <17' 7,:7,IJ 29.i ltll. It'.£ .7~ NI ~s:, 3,/1,2 lt?,9,                             'i7 3'9 l-2,t /"J./J :J/,ll l/?,1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
         Evaluation
                           J;/ c;,ECOA/LJS -
                                        Number
                                                                 _s-/14,,,v~=
                                                                        Per Cent
                                                                                                       t-"f',J
                                                                                                       Number
                                                                                                       Per Cent
                           Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Dooblful Total
                                                                                                                       A,,f/,IVI/TF'(                         LJ11=a 3.() /1,f, AU/rF<
                                                                                                                                                             NuntJer               Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                /11,,r
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Number
                                                                                                                                                      ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tolal Certain Doubtfu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5'r.ArKn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PerCBlt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Total Certain lloobtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
    0-Balloon               /It? "16 7£ /j'..2. I/, 9 :1.,/                                    >3        3'7 ?o lt.i                  //,7 ,zy,r ZS- l.7-               :{7    /I:/ 1,7 .J-3.5 3/    20 ~/ f,t) S';'/ 11/.'1
    I-Astronomical
    2-Aircraft
    Hillht Phenom.
                               ?   7 /~ /,tJ ;2, 5 1-'l
                            113 5?J qz /fJ.~ /£.S 3tl.i
                               h  3 '? 2,/) I. tJ JP
                                                                                               '27
                                                                                                ?(
                                                                                               13
                                                                                                         Ill 3.£
                                                                                                         33 ill-
                                                                                                            6
                                                                                                                             J,o
                                                                                                                   9,li IIJ,/1. w,..,
                                                                                                               19 If./ /,9 /,!)
                                                                                                                                       JJ.,ft /M 2? /3
                                                                                                                                                        8'
                                                                                                                                                        I        2
                                                                                                                                                                  7
                                                                                                                                                                       36 /IJ,R

                                                                                                                                                                       J
                                                                                                                                                                        15' s;
                                                                                                                                                                                       f,J/ ;z.32
                                                                                                                                                                                       ~J' '/,7 LJ., 77 £'? 12.2 l,f .uo
                                                                                                                                                                               ,u /, 5 j,f
                                                                                                                                                                                                     /3 59 IJ,/J. 3,'i? I l,.2.
                                                                                                                                                                                                     JL,(,



                                                                                                                                                                                                        ?        I     .4- tJ. '1 tU /,2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
    4-Birds                    I  t?  I o.3 0./) i:7.:?                                           /)        CJ 0  /),t    tJ.O t:J.O                    ;z.      (J    z       /,3     tJ.tJ /,J        I . t?         I     1).3      t),/) ,1, 3
    5-Clouds. Oust. etc.
    6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
                             0     'f 3 tl.lJ /.tl /,I)
                            I! tJ Ii' S-.9 tJtJ
                                  3 7 1.3 /,(l :J..3
                                                                                     ,:9 2?
                                                                                                  I         I .2 0.3 .13 ,1,,(,
                                                                                                           /J 27 'l.S t7.P ,ZS      7
                                                                                                                                                        I        0
                                                                                                                                                                 t)    7
                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                       .r :i.t
                                                                                                                                                                               tf.6
                                                                                                                                                                               J/,S
                                                                                                                                                                                       ,:1.1)   tU
                                                                                                                                                                                       tJ.o L/.,J 'lo
                                                                                                                                                                                                        I   CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I     0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ?JJ,J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0./J tJ,3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       tJ, t ;z.~:r   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ~-
    7-Psychological          /.I-                                                                7        tJ   7 ,2..2. M 2.:Z If                                I                     tJ.I .3.:Z.     2        J      3      (),      tJ.     tJ.9
                            77 t) 77 :2S,IJ IJ. /) ,:S:Jf                                                 t:' S-! /i,/J ao J'l,11- ?9                                  .79 :is:2 t1,/J '?,;;.z ?3                     7"1 2./.:Z       ll.tJ :21.2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
    &-Unknown                                                                                  ~9                                                                Cl                                             t?
    9-0tlleJ                  '1 tJ   7 J,t t:J. {} J,{)                                      /CJ         3 /J -:/,.,2 /J.9 II-, I  7                           1       If) 11..5' I.CJ' !J, fl /:Z             I     /,'              t'-1 '3.K

I       Total              _,UJ/ /tJ:Z. 3/J'f 66.3 3.r.7 voo. 12.t2                                     VJ Jlt 7/J.3 ;l.9.7 //Jt?, 1/7 31 /Ff 7B ?i; {" It?.?. .:L8/                                           tr3 3/.19 11.7 /Y.3 ltJt?.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                    160
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
I
I
I                                                fU£ I
                                                                            E /(t9L ((dn ,Plf/
                                                                            /ILL      Yc-4~S




I
            Evaluation
    II-Balloon
        I-Astronomical
                            S- S~uJNPS



                            f/1
                               .?
                                      - J            ~
                                                          1//VO /t,5S
                                                          PerCmt


                                                            J.I,
                                       RO 1,1 109 ?9,0 IT,1/ .:lf.
                                                                       I 1 .J..,7
                                                                                    £-/tJ $,FC,PA,P5
                                                                                     Number


                                                                                        :z           r
                                                                                                           Per Cent

                                                                                                           £        1.1
                                                                                                 /9 ~,,;- .2'1fJ l/6.'/
                                                                                                                                  //- 3/J ..f',FC/JIYPJ
                                                                                                                                   Numbef


                                                                                                                                 as 3":3            S'
                                                                                                                                                         PerCenl

                                                                                                                                                                    9 /I/
                                                                                                                                                                                                J$c./J;yp



                                                                                                                                                                                         1? t/.i 7,5
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Per Cent
                            Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total ,-:;ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total ~ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Toi~


                                                                                                                                          ,u ,;H' / / ?, /.tl _<.q l'l.i
                                                                                                                                                                                 Number

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           J/-10

                                                                                                                                                                                                                             9 /(
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7 /6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A/.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              t:..O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C.o /:),()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '/.7 //).7
    2•Aircrlft               :u        .:u 1/11 lJ       1 /f',lf I fl                               9 1-'1 /S',f fi /) '1..J,9                    ~              '3 I    £'7 /'1,l /l.7 J£/) 3d                            /9 af ?ll,/, I .:J.' I J::J,i
                                        .2.. q. /),7 I) '1 /.t,                                   :;,               t2'1         1.8 .'l.7                                       5 ,!, /,0                                    .:; 1 tJ~ /.? /,3

I
    Hi;itPtlenom.              .2                                    I                                        3                                             I        I    2..                   0
    4-Binls                   ..2         Ii {            ~-'
                                                        I'/ .2.../ (J                              /           I 11,0            .M ~q                  /           I    ,t_ ,£ .< l,P           V                              I £'" :J.7      .? ?.I/
    S-Clouds, Dus~ et~         0         I     / " A /) ~ ,17,J     0                                (J       I)   tJ./)        ~-{) t),0               0           :J 'L tJ, /) I I /,/        0                              d t! tJ.t) t),/J /).!}
    6-tMUffi~ ~fa.           IS          ()  /., ,;.:. /l A S:2.
                                         0 2 I) 1 ,,, ~ 17.7 (J
                                                                    K                                f)       'I 7./            1).0       7. I /ti
                                                                                                                                                        v
                                                                                                                                                                    (} IF <.11 l () f./
                                                                                                                                                                                         ..   //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               o 1/ ?. '.3 /l,/l 7,3

I                                                                                                                  ,M            /) 0 t/.0                          ..:; ~           I. I J,3 ,;;z
    7-Psyd,olo!ical           .2.                                                                    /J       /)                                                                                                               tJ       I 'I tJ,{) /.3
    1-Unlulo•               .:z.7        tJ ;1..7 '14 "II f,11 ;2./                                       1.../ /~6              tJ.0 /9',I.,                              33 11.? /),/] /7,? J/..:7                           0 LL? l.2Q'O 0,0 ~/)
    9-0111•                    'I        ,j I ;z. ~
                                                          () If.-/     '·
                                                                   .;1..                           0
                                                                                                     tJ
                                                                                                           :L d                  IJ./J /,'jf
                                                                                                                                                   ;?~
                                                                                                                                                    If'             .-
                                                                                                                                                                    (}
                                                                                                                                                                           Ill It!. 7 .:?.1 5:1.i ~                          ,.;J s ., 0 /~ 3.3


I          Total            /{'f /17 :n, f'1. I ./1).'f 1100. '7K                               Jf //"1, /f,I) .!J/,P /(){) /:1.JJ.                               £..2 !/?,: ILL'/
                                                                                                                                                                                                 "~ Im:?,         JIil     '(O /.,-i:, 7i; .21:.1 //JO,




I           Evaluation
    0-Balloon



I
        l•Astronomical
    2-Aimaft
        3-Lightf'tlenom.
        4-Birds



I   5-Clouds. Oust, etc.
    6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
    7-Psychological
    8-Unkno"1'1



I   S.Other

    1      Total




I                                                '
                              S- S F/'hYP,; AIVP ./.F.J5
                                    Number                Percent
                                                                       £ VAL//"1r//:JIII
                                                                        ;f47

                                                                                   Number
                                                                                              6-/(?           5£CC-hVL?.5
                                                                                                       PerCerit                NuntJer               Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                 //-3tl ..5'I:C PIYP .f
                                                                                                                                                                             Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .,?/-r,tJ          SfiCOIV/7.J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PerCmt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7




I   2-Aimaft
            Evaluation
        0-Balloon
        I-Astronomical
                            Certain DoubtfuI Total Certain Doubtfu I Total Certain DMtful Total Certain Doobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu

                               /J
                                -:{
                               C,
                                           ,1
                                             I
                                            /)
                                                     {J
                                                     II
                                                     tJ
                                                            tJ,I)
                                                          6().P
                                                            M
                                                              ""·"
                                                                        ~I.)



                                                                ~.{) ().0
                                                                                M
                                                                               l'l'.P
                                                                                        0
                                                                                         /)
                                                                                         /
                                                                                                     tJ
                                                                                                  __, 3
                                                                                                     fl    ()
                                                                                                              "      /J.O tJ.O tJ.O
                                                                                                                    ~J ''-7 //)/}.{)
                                                                                                                    /.0 p,I) t1.i)
                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                            (}
                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                      /
                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                         1.~
                                                                                                                                                                                        '/,-:?
                                                                                                                                                                                        o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                   t?.tJ ~j
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,J.tJ 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                  '1.3 '13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Total Certain lloobtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       {)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               /),0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,,I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /),I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              tJ,h /~7 /1,7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       16,7 /1'.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 tJ.l)




I       l·Light Phenom.
        4-Birds
    5-Clouds, Oust. etc.
                               0

                               0
                                0
                                            0
                                            0
                                            0
                                                     t?
                                                     (}
                                                     /)
                                                            o.P
                                                            /),0
                                                            CJ)
                                                                       U)
                                                                        ~
                                                                       ao 11,0
                                                                                ao
                                                                                /}.(}
                                                                                        a
                                                                                        0
                                                                                        0
                                                                                                  l'.)
                                                                                                     /)

                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                           (7
                                                                                                           CJ
                                                                                                           ()
                                                                                                                     iJ,0
                                                                                                                      tJ.O
                                                                                                                     o,c
                                                                                                                                 ao iJ.D a
                                                                                                                                 /J,O
                                                                                                                                  lb O,f)
                                                                                                                                           t),{)
                                                                                                                                                        a
                                                                                                                                                            d
                                                                                                                                                                    C
                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                           (7
                                                                                                                                                                               /)

                                                                                                                                                                               ()
                                                                                                                                                                                         0.()
                                                                                                                                                                                        t'J.IJ
                                                                                                                                                                                        t1./)
                                                                                                                                                                                                  (),() iJ.n
                                                                                                                                                                                                  /),IJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                  /},I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                          tJ./)
                                                                                                                                                                                                          /J.I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,".I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    tJ       r1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                t:J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IJ. /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       tJ.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,1./)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /J,IJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /),()

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /J, 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 tJ,{)
    6-lnStlffic.lnro.          I}           {]       /)     dA         M a.n             (}          /)   /?         ao           P,O (J.IJ         ..:2.           (J  2 1,.7 11,0 I{,';                           0           /)     p      d,(J      /J.()    ao
I       7-Psychological
    II-Unknown
    9-0ther
                               ()
                              /)

                               /
                                            0
                                            0
                                           t'J
                                                     t?
                                                     /)

                                                     I
                                                             /)/


                                                             M
                                                          .Jp,/).
                                                                        tJ.0
                                                                        d.D
                                                                                l).t
                                                                                 /),t
                                                                      tJ.() :J.P./}     0
                                                                                         /J
                                                                                         0
                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                   CJ /?
                                                                                                           {J
                                                                                                          tJ
                                                                                                                     /), 0
                                                                                                                     rJ.O
                                                                                                                    (/./).
                                                                                                                                  l)..o rJ.o
                                                                                                                                 l},P tJ.O
                                                                                                                                 ,M 4,/J
                                                                                                                                                    ".s
                                                                                                                                                    /
                                                                                                                                                                    / I      0,0 'if:3 n
                                                                                                                                                                     t1 r II/I. 7 (),{) lf-/.7
                                                                                                                                                                    a I ii:, N OC{,3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      If- Ct.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      {)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1,p      tJ. /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        t?.O 11,.<;7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        t?.JJ     DJ



I          Total              If       I             r ~o ~o //Jo.                       I       2            ~    JJ.J 1£6.7 //)0,                /{)            2       /.:J          g3_"1 IC.. 7l{)(J,         If       2         6      t67 73..3 /PtJ,




I           Evaluation
    0-Balloon
                             GI S'£co,vps-Sft11NI/TF..5
                            Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total c:;ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                               2
                                      lmmbef


                                            0        '2    -,o,
                                                                    PerCmt


                                                                      ~.P .2r.~         /1
                                                                                             ,5-3?? MA/t.1T£.J
                                                                                               Number

                                                                                                   ,1         0      c?.O
                                                                                                                              PerCmt
                                                                                                                                  Number

                                                                                                                                 /)..{)    tJ.o
                                                                                                                                                   01/CI? 3/l ~/A/k'TL:5
                                                                                                                                                        Per Cent                Number                Per Cent


                                                                                                                                                                                                                    t/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AlttT SrAr£L7


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 If   /f      9.'I       P. () 9.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7
I                                                                                                         0                                lo
        1-Astronomical         /)          11    /)         lf.O       l).O     /J,{)    /l       /I                 M           1)..0                                                                              ~           <.I            7.0      '1.3 /{.3
    2-Aircrift                 tJ           0        I}    0.0         P.O     tJ.I)     /J       0       tJ         D.O         0. IJ     !},!                                                                     ..1      d ..J-..          JI~     1).0 /.J, 7
    3-Light Phenom.            I           /)        I    ,v.   ~      d.(J /lf,J        I]       IJ      !?        tl,O         {),()     /,r;                                                                    I            J     I       " ~ tJ,tJ (),J;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IJ,/) .2.~
    4-Birds                    0            /)       /J     /),0       t1,d /J,/}                 n       /)         0,0         t}.JJ     t?.O                                                                    0            0     t1      (),0
                                           a tJ M                                       "/}
I   5-C\0t1ds, Oust. etc.
    6-lnsuffic.lnlo.
    7-Psydlololical
    I-Unknown
                              0
                               I
                               IJ
                              ..2.
                                           11 I /11.3
                                            0 (} 0.0
                                           () 2 l.7r.i
                                                                       t?,I) (),/)
                                                                       0,/) Ill?
                                                                       {),O
                                                                       /).0 ,U.(
                                                                                tJ.O
                                                                                        '}


                                                                                        0
                                                                                         /
                                                                                                  tJ

                                                                                                  /)

                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                     tJ .:L

                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                           t?

                                                                                                          ,()
                                                                                                                   /), 0
                                                                                                                   V.P
                                                                                                                    {),o
                                                                                                                                 IJ.O
                                                                                                                                 tJ.tJ 1'67
                                                                                                                                 o.o o.o
                                                                                                                   3'3.3 /).() 7.7,3
                                                                                                                                            (}.t


                                                                                                                                                                   -.\
                                                                                                                                                                   .\
                                                                                                                                                                          (\
                                                                                                                                                                               ~
                                                                                                                                                                                   \°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /(}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /'J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      f}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ll
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ().(}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /[~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ?.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                e, 1P J3~ tl,P 23'3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       l!,O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (J.()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,A,3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /), l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (1,3

                                                                       c.o /f/,3
I   g.Other


           Total              7
                               /        tJ
                                       tJ        7
                                                     I    I/J.,J

                                                          'M/J        /J,/} 1/()P,
                                                                                        0

                                                                                        3       tJ
                                                                                                  0       11

                                                                                                          3
                                                                                                                    M

                                                                                                                   'tJ(J.f)
                                                                                                                                 /),/)

                                                                                                                                 tJ.p I/IP.
                                                                                                                                           ti.{)                                                                    ~

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  33'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                " q I 1,(. /),/) {'I,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .r </$ '99,t/ 11. t: /Po.

I                                                                                                                        161

I
                                                                                                                                                                                 \
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                               '
                                    s 5FCPA/PJ AIYt? Lt:55
                                               Number            Per Cent
                                                                              /?✓.B'
                                                                                                     t5-/tl    5eCPA/PS
                                                                                                          Number
                                                                                                                       IJF       t?A'Jet!T



                                                                                                                            Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                    l/-3tJ 5'ncP/YP5
                                                                                                                                                                 Number                Percent                 Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .'f/-1~ S,1;cNVPJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
         Evaluation                Certain Doubtful Tola! Certain Doubtful Total               ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total               ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
10.Balloon                                J       IJ   I i',; 0.0 tJ. f                          d           I              I     0,0     7,7 Zl            d           ,.J           :z.. IJ./) ;:z2.o           77          ,1            t)      /)        ;),O      (J.() tJ.O
;I-Astronomical                       s            j 12...- ».7 M.¥ !,2.J                       'I            /         ~ '-11111         7.7 .30           A            /           I         /). 4    //./ /I, I            0             d      t)         /).O      t) () t). 0
    2-Aircralt                        ..:l         d 2 1p P.{) 1.7                              d                (/     /,J  0-0           P.O (),()       ./               (l        I       II.I       /l. () //,/          ~             0      ;z       SIM        /),/)    S-4./}
                                                      I .,, 3     ~"                                                             ti.O 15.1 ;.q,
                                                                                                              .:;                                                                                !.t     0,() ;_/)                                                     tJ.O /Jb
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
    3-Light Phenom.                        I       A                  1-1..5                    0                       '2.                                 d            IJ          ,?                                       d             0      ,9         11.()
                                          ,                I 1/.Z                                                                         11.P M                                                                                                                        d.D t), ()
                                                                                                                                                                                     " t)M0 "·"
    4•Birds                                        A                          t).()    If..!     A            /J        /)      ().b                            ,1          /J                    ~()                         tJ            (j     19          0.()
    ~Clouds, Oust, etc.               tJ          /)       t)        t?.0      I.I     (J.tJ     d            tJ        /)      ().O      0.1) ~-0          d            t)          t)     !),{) tJ,P                       C)            0       (?          t!,t     M tJ.L,
    6--lnsuHic. lnfu.                 ...2        0       ?         51.7       /J.P    p             /        tJ I   '77                  t1,() 7,/         /            d           I        II./        ,?/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ill         /            0       I        ;2,:1       /1,I) :ZS-,!}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
    7-Psycfllloaical                  11           /)     ,:?       tJ./J     /J./J    (),{1     If           tJ I) ().~                  tJ.O t?-0         I           (/           /)        t),t      t1,!) (l,p          tJ            Cl      /l        0-0        11.0
    &-Unknown                          .1         ll      g        /'3.0      ,:J./) /J,t)       </          t) If .... 11                M J().8               -t          A        3        YJ.3      t),/) 3.7.3           d            d       /)          ()/J     (),O     "·Q
    9-0lller                          I\          I       I          p.()     //,} /f,3         ()           d /) (l,0                    tJ.o 0.0          A            I           I          /J,{)   /I./ II,/             /            d       I        ;J.f;P     /},/) ~§;/)


        Total                      /!,           !?'      :J? I.S,)          ... ,;_; 11~». 9               4          13 6'1~ ~.1 /PP.                    ~            II            ? 53',t lfl,/./1 /tJP.                 II-          tJ       y' l{)O,I           t).tJ IN.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
         Evaluation
    0-Balloon
                                    tisn;o,;ps - ,F/4JA/IITFS


                                      /
                                               Number
                                   Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain DooblM Total ~ertain OoubHul Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu Total Certain lloobtful Total

                                                   /
                                                                 Per Cent


                                                       :2 II I //,/ 7:l.z
                                                                                         Number


                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                         ;;-3;:;
                                                                                                               Per Cent


                                                                                                                 ~      J
                                                                                                                            /1 ✓,<.,yvT.£'S
                                                                                                                                     Nuntler


                                                                                                                                 ~7 2-6.7 J.J.~
                                                                                                                                                                ,:::JveH 3tl Ml.tVVTeS
                                                                                                                                                          Per Cent

                                                                                                                                                                C/          /}
                                                                                                                                                                                  Number

                                                                                                                                                                                     £1.       v<f~
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Per Cent

                                                                                                                                                                                                         t?.O ikJ1.           <;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /f/-1r


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ..:l.        7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5T,1T.t=P-


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              fl~       ~ 'I    1/,S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                ~,: /J,{) l..z..<7
                                                    / ,2. II. I /I.I :U.2                         y'                                                                                           ~~-~      M                   ,r                              i.~ I 21. 'I ]/,'if

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
    1-Astronomical                     /                                                                         CJ /I                                          3           J.1       ?                           33.J                   /.:5 ,2/
    2-Aimatt                              3        t1 3 33.3 tJ.O 313                            I               /      ,,2      /.7 £7 134                     /        CJ           I        II J     ,1, (}    Ill        .r              'I ,!'           9.2       ti 9 I 3./
    3·UghtPh8lom.                      0           (}  /J  t/,/) tJ,() {),/)                     /            /)        I        •. 7     t:J.o   a             ,-1         0        17         tJ,o    /},/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0./J                 ()          I I             ~-0        /,C,     u
    4-Sirds                            /)          11     (J        t1.?i      /J.(} /), C)       0           I         I       /.()      /.7 /.7               l'1         11       /)         tJ,0 tJ.(? 0./)               I             ~       3         1.6        ~:? 11,f
    )-Clouds, Oust. etc.
    6-lnsuffic.lnlo.
    7-Psychological
                                      f)
                                      I
                                      d
                                                   0
                                                   /]
                                                  tJ
                                                          {)
                                                           I ~/. I
                                                           I" /'.O
                                                                   d, r)       c.o ().0
                                                                              /}, /) /I.I
                                                                               /),(} /).0
                                                                                                  tJ
                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                 /)
                                                                                                                 If tJ
                                                                                                                 tJ I
                                                                                                                ,1      fl
                                                                                                                                /J./)
                                                                                                                                {7
                                                                                                                                (),0
                                                                                                                                          (l. /} t:J.p
                                                                                                                                          I}.()
                                                                                                                                          IJ.tl
                                                                                                                                                  1.7
                                                                                                                                                  /),/)
                                                                                                                                                            l'1
                                                                                                                                                            C)
                                                                                                                                                            /
                                                                                                                                                                         d
                                                                                                                                                                         If
                                                                                                                                                                            (J ()

                                                                                                                                                                                     tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                /1,{I (? /) (J,/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                tJ.O (J,O /),/)
                                                                                                                                                                                               //./
                                                                                                                                                                                               t!, ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                         ~{) /!,/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   //) 111

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P.6

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             O.tl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 "/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        o,n I),/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        dJ) //.II-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1\1\ /J,/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
    8-Unkno'MI                        I           0        I       ,.f./       f).O II./         ,?          0          (}      tJ.()     tl.P /J.tJ        0               (7       /)                  M tJ.()                             t)    If        I.. C.     l'l/1    l.t

I
    9-0ther


        Total                       7
                                      0

                                                ,2
                                                  0       (?        UJ

                                                          9 'IN ~.:l !OP.
                                                                               M 0-tJ            t)


                                                                                               (?'          7
                                                                                                              /         I       C,()      o.7 ,6',7

                                                                                                                       / f ' 55.:? 'f"- 7 /1)0.            9
                                                                                                                                                                0

                                                                                                                                                                        t:>
                                                                                                                                                                            /I       ()


                                                                                                                                                                                      f
                                                                                                                                                                                                (),t


                                                                                                                                                                                              INl_()
                                                                                                                                                                                                         /},b t!,o            -~            r/

                                                                                                                                                                                                         ;J,{) /PtJ. J£ _z,- ' / 1.,:-qo r(" /OtJ.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ~          ✓.'I I ,r. ltS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                    ~ SFt..tiA/PJ .,,,.,,,,., L,1:s5
                                                                               E (/it.. t/,fV<2trl


                                                                                                     ,:{-/!?            S,1=:u,;vo.J'                                 //-J ,?l 5tEctJ.IYPJ                                              .31-c o             SecPNP5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
    I                                      Number                PerCenl                   Number                PerCmt                  Nunler                Per Cent                Number                                                                  PerCmt
         Evaluation
    0-Balloon
                                   Certain Doubtful Total Certain lloobtfu I Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu

                                          0
                                          (/
                                                   cJ     0          ~/2 tJ.O ()/J
                                                                     95 c;,w1 ltr.i,1
                                                                                                 0               /}      t>
                                                                                                                       ,J_
                                                                                                                                  Jp       /0
                                                                                                                                 I.R :z.u fff~
                                                                                                                                                   ll.t     0               0
                                                                                                                                                                             ~           ,, .,,
                                                                                                                                                                                         t?      o.C      tJ.O tJ,/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                        '<'I'~ s-.s:r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              _..,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            r1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Total Certain Doobtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    t1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   J_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             JJ,O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            J Ii' -,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        JJ./)    /},t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I,() /f.,2,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                     ~.
    l•Astronomical                               -:?fl /f-.2-                                    /)          ol                                             ..3.                                                                             0
    2-Aircratt                            /J       ,;, z_            /Jr, ;/f It.]               0           /          I        /l.• /1/,3 1//;J           _'l             (1       ;2... ,,.:1         (),() ;J.:7.,,1..       .:;,       .6     ::z... l'i.2..       tJ.{) lt.2
    ~Phenom.

    ~
    S-Clouo:i., _.. st, etc.
                                      0
                                      0
                                      6
                                                   0

                                                   ()
                                                      I
                                                           t?
                                                           I
                                                           fJ
                                                                     t?.O tJ,P tJ,t)

                                                                     0t
                                                                          .:JI 2-./
                                                                               (),/)   /JO
                                                                                                 ()
                                                                                                 15
                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                              I)
                                                                                                                        /?
                                                                                                                        /J
                                                                                                                        tJ
                                                                                                                                 tJ.0
                                                                                                                                 /)./)
                                                                                                                                 /J.t
                                                                                                                                           tJ.tJ tJ.tJ
                                                                                                                                          (),/)
                                                                                                                                          tf.()
                                                                                                                                                  tJ,p
                                                                                                                                                  cu        11
                                                                                                                                                                d
                                                                                                                                                                d
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                            tJ
                                                                                                                                                                             d           "
                                                                                                                                                                                          M
                                                                                                                                                                                      I) 0,0
                                                                                                                                                                                      t)  (,d
                                                                                                                                                                                                         /J.tJ /J.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                         (J./J
                                                                                                                                                                                                         tJ,t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   tP.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0./)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (J

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0 ..1..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0          11.()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            lf.7...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /),/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tJ.t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1-P /(.A.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0,0 tJ.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /J.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
    ~lnsuffic. Info.                  ;l._         {)     2          Y.'1     /J,/J    11.3       /               tJ     I No             t',(l !IA~            /         iJ           I II/             tJ.o II. I               /         tJ I             9/         p.()     'I.I
    7-PsycOOlogical

    8-Unknov«1
    9-0ther
                                      0
                                      tJ
                                     11
                                                   t'J
                                                   !
                                                  ()
                                                          /l
                                                          t)
                                                           (?
                                                                    p.()
                                                                     /:d
                                                                     I.I
                                                                               M
                                                                               M M
                                                                               /).t
                                                                                        (/.t


                                                                                       o.o
                                                                                                 " 0"
                                                                                                 ~

                                                                                                 /           tJ
                                                                                                                        /? t!,()
                                                                                                                        -7 bf.i:;
                                                                                                                        I IN~
                                                                                                                                          I.I     tJ,t)
                                                                                                                                          6./) ).'I,{,
                                                                                                                                          tJ,O llf.1
                                                                                                                                                                d
                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         c)
                                                                                                                                                                            0         ~
                                                                                                                                                                                          p
                                                                                                                                                                                         I /JI
                                                                                                                                                                                                tJ,(J


                                                                                                                                                                                                1J./)
                                                                                                                                                                                                         /}, u
                                                                                                                                                                                                         j,{)
                                                                                                                                                                                                         (),/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /J.1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  II.I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /.J,O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ll
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 r,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /\  ,:J           /), (,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            a.LI- -:ic. s /),(J 16,1,I-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0 ~ I)./) l.tJ /).()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tJ./)    /),/J

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
        Total                        ;; Ill               f 7 /,2~ <,t1), ltP.                  //-           1 7 [<;1 I '/,Jj I 00                         6           3             ?       LL        1P, li?t', II                      /)      / / /00.()           tf,() IM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
         Evaluation
    0-Balloon
                                    //.)e-.;cwp5 -



                                       r,
                                               Number


                                                  0
                                                                   S-.AtwTFS



                                                           I ,27~ /),/) t7,3
                                                                            PerCmt
                                                                                                b-dtJ NJ.tV//TE:5
                                                                                           Number                Per Cent                 Number                Per Cent                Number                Percent
                                   Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total 1,;ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total J;ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                 ..:2           .,, 4 //).() JtJ.() "71)_/)
                                                                                                                                                            tJv~/f 3 tJ /Jf;;vvr,e-5


                                                                                                                                                            /J              t)       tJ          M         /J.O 1).0              'l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Mr

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            STATF'.P



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                "'f "9 M If.'{
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                ;s:p tJ.t} /5";/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
    I-Astronomical                    /)          ~        3 ,.,,0 I-i..' ;U                       -:.;       ,f 3                                          1            rl          3 t/J.'              /}./J 11-.z.r      I<              9 ~ 7'( ~ 1,(1 31./
    2•A11craft                         1          ,<          S 1'3.6 q,/ 9.J.,7                  '.<        3          I       /S-:t !S-:tJ 3M             0                /           I      !),Z    /,/;3 /1/.:3              a'        J // J?.? If.'! /7.)
    3-Llght Phenom.                   tJ           ()         t?     M         /J./) (/./)       n            0         0        ()./}     /J.O  1-rJ       t')             t')       tJ        M         fl.()    M             ,1         /) /l 1.0 tJ,p I)./)
    4-Birds                           tJ           0          p      O,C       /),I) M            0              /)     t)       1/./)     ,J.!) M           0              0            p      M         t)} /),f)              ()         0 /) tJ,0 l,t) tJ.t)
    S-Clouds, Oust, etc.
    S-lnsuH1c. lnlo.
    7-Psycflological
                                      0
                                      .1
                                      ()          a
                                                   /)
                                                   /)
                                                           0
                                                              p
                                                           5 11,6
                                                                     t).()


                                                                     00
                                                                                M
                                                                               c.o 13,£
                                                                               0.0 tJ.t
                                                                                       (}.()



                                                                               tJ.O /f,2
                                                                                                 /J
                                                                                                  /
                                                                                                  /
                                                                                                                 I)

                                                                                                                 IJ
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                        (l
                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                 M
                                                                                                                                5:'0
                                                                                                                                ,7,/)
                                                                                                                                           t),j
                                                                                                                                          rJ.p
                                                                                                                                          /),0
                                                                                                                                                  {}.tJ
                                                                                                                                                  £{)
                                                                                                                                                  5:0
                                                                                                                                                            ()

                                                                                                                                                            /
                                                                                                                                                            /)
                                                                                                                                                                         n
                                                                                                                                                                         ()
                                                                                                                                                                            /')
                                                                                                                                                                                     t?         rJ.O
                                                                                                                                                                                      I 111,3 !l./) /11:3
                                                                                                                                                                                     ?' /),0 tJ.j J./)
                                                                                                                                                                                     I 1/f.3 (),{) ltf.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                          O.f) /),/1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /.,)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,.,1.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             11 ,? /J,()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             11 I~ ?t_ 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0 ,:L "{?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   p          q_ ('
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        t),j tJ.v
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tJ,tJ l;?/1'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         P.v J,2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
    &-Unknown                         fl           ()     JI 11.1-.:;;                           4<.          I}       .4       ~.[,      t7.0 J.P./}       /            /)                                                   6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ..,        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        "" J,?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           9,.f


I
    9.0ther


        Total                      17
                                      /           tJ
                                                  ,
                                                            I      ✓,



                                                          :l.:J 7H ln,.7 11~~.
                                                                              ~o J/S             /            0         I

                                                                                               IS- s- fZ{} 7H 2S: 0 //)/), If
                                                                                                                                 n        l).t' !,,/)           /       ,1


                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                      I

                                                                                                                                                                                          7 ~,
                                                                                                                                                                                              11/;3      0.0 II/;•
                                                                                                                                                                                                        11/-.3 Illa          n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /)



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /..Z...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   :l- 1. .2


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   "'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I./)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            jj'/ t) /'?.I)      /f),1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                         162
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
I
I
I                              ~ ~ ECPNP.5 ANP Less
                                             Nu-                             Per Cent
                                                                                                         tf'-/0 .5 re ON/?5
                                                                                                           Number                Percent               Number
                                                                                                                                                                        //-Jt) 5,FC.Ll,Yt?J
                                                                                                                                                                              Percent                 Number                Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7/-tf'tJ             .5',F,:p,yp5

            Evaluation         Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total                        ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total """'n Doll>tful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total


I   0-Balloon
    1-Asbanomical                 ~
                                     /          /J
                                                 y fl)
                                                      I              /'_'/
                                                                   @I)
                                                                                  P.l
                                                                               :i,.· £'(.7
                                                                                            {7       A
                                                                                                     /
                                                                                                                   /J   (J   O,t (), l !). l ~
                                                                                                                   ..;, 3 -;,<I, t;A/1 7S:P ..<
                                                                                                                                                                                /
                                                                                                                                                                               ()
                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                         :z..
                                                                                                                                                                                                   /).t /,1 Q IM
                                                                                                                                                                                                ~,?)I     M
                                                                                                                                                                                         s-- 1A.A ?t1_.0 J;P,/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  :zp,I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              _.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ~          2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I If/            /J.P Ill
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ao I??__'.) ;z;z,:;_
    2-Aircraft                       /          /]         I        t.7          rJ.O 17
                                                                     ao !J.l 0.0 tJ
                                                                                                         I         CJ    I O(A !},() :7>.l -~                                  .:,
                                                                                                                                                                                         ,,               ao a1J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        l'l       2       ?2,.,       IJA     72,



I
    3-LiRf,tPhenom.
    4-Birds
                                  tJ
                                     tJ
                                                /J
                                                ~
                                                           0
                                                           t7        /).() t7.{) c.o 0
                                                                                                                   t1 ()
                                                                                                                   0 ()
                                                                                                                             tl.u I.L t?.O
                                                                                                                            (),t t'./1. /)I', ()                    "           r)
                                                                                                                                                                                /]       t')
                                                                                                                                                                                                 /), {)
                                                                                                                                                                                                 .?,O      t?P 0. A
                                                                                                                                                                                                           {}p 0.1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        c) t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ()       0. t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1J.l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       P,{}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /1.(I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               /J b
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               /J,t)
    S-Clouds, Oust. etc.          ()           /I          /}         /).j       /).0       (),t     C)             /]  t)  t?.I 0/1. /)I) 0                                    I)       ()      IL                           d          (, /]              11.t      t'f!
    6--lnsuffic. tnro.           .:l           0          :J...     /"' .:i      rJ.O 13.3            /]           0 t) d.O /}./} /J,A /                                       tJ        I /d./J !J.t //}.(;                                /J    ()        {)(}      IJ,/)    ti.{)
                                                                      o.o                                                                                                                     O.o (),{) ().()                "                              O.c       /}.{)    o.o
I
    7-P,ycliolopCII                  tJ         t)         /}                     tU (},()           0              0 0     tJ.I)  ;J() (JJ   ,1                               ()        &                                    t1        0         tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '3'
    1-Unlalown
    '-Otber
                                   /
                                  IJ
                                                a
                                               ()
                                                            I
                                                           I)
                                                                     (.7
                                                                     (J,0
                                                                                 tJ.t
                                                                                  t?.t
                                                                                           £7
                                                                                           /),0
                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                      ~            0"       ()
                                                                                                                            ()
                                                                                                                                   /)~
                                                                                                                                   110
                                                                                                                                             ()j
                                                                                                                                             1/,/)
                                                                                                                                                         1,/)
                                                                                                                                                         tJ.p
                                                                                                                                                                    /
                                                                                                                                                                    ~
                                                                                                                                                                               ()
                                                                                                                                                                                   ()
                                                                                                                                                                                         I /t:1./J
                                                                                                                                                                                         0        rJ.P
                                                                                                                                                                                                          r)./) /t1.l}
                                                                                                                                                                                                          t?.t J.I)           /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        d          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ~'t,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          // I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (),0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /J.O I/I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ??~



                                                          IS' n.~ ?(."/ j#.                          ;                                                             7

I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  9 ??.J :Z;/.::J Ill.
    i      Total                II             ¥                                                                  ~         ,I    ('d,ll l<d.ll         !IP.                   3        /~ 7An :30iJ !OP.                   7           1




I            Evaluation
        0-Balloon
                                61 c.lECO.¥P.,- ..,-4.,,y,:.,r,1:5
                                             Number                           Percent
                                                                                                         £-3tJ Mv.tvrF.5
                                                                                                        PerCmt   Number
                               Certain Ooobtful Tomi Certain Doubtful Tomi Certain Doubtful Tomi Certain OoobtM Tolal
                                     </             /      .r J?<                 3./ /5.t               ,t         .2      IO    -VJ
                                                                                                                                            ,;.
                                                                                                                                                                         Nuntier              Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Mr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ~)VJTE'P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PerCmt
                                                                                                                                                                  ertain Doubtful Tomi Certain Doubtful Tola! certain Doubtfu Tomi Certain Ooobtful Total

                                                                                                                                                   ' :l7.~ J 0 33 JJ.J
                                                                                                                                                                       cJveN $1) M. -✓t/TEY



                                                                                                                                                                                                           M J'i3              (        d        7. '/ 4 d 7.tf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   fl.
                                     :-:r                  3         q 'i        t7.0 '/,/1-
                                                                                                     -..,,                  :z. 5t,                                .:;                                                         y            < It/ I/C,J9. 3 'HO
I
        I-Astronomical                             ,1                                                               /l                        I).(;      S:/,                   /               ,V,;, //,/ n3
        2-Aircraft
        Hight Ptunom.
                                     .3
                                     C)
                                                /
                                                0
                                                            /.-1
                                                            0
                                                                     1/. <I
                                                                      t?.C
                                                                                  3.1 12.5
                                                                                 ().()      co
                                                                                                         ~
                                                                                                         ,1
                                                                                                                    .3
                                                                                                                      tJ
                                                                                                                             6
                                                                                                                             ()
                                                                                                                                   ~-' V 1/.b
                                                                                                                                     b/,     ;J,{)        11/J
                                                                                                                                                                    /]

                                                                                                                                                                    /J
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                0        tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                           c)    {),0 (),0 (),{)
                                                                                                                                                                                                 t?.0 (/,{/ P,t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               cJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '3 1:Z. IN.7 5'./,. J2.J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ()  I ,::P.(J o_lJ P. fl
                                     ()            0                 fJ.O         o.o 0.t                tJ                  0                    11~     0.0                             0                tJ.O tJ./1         t)                           /J_t1     oo        Q.tl
                                                                                                                                                                    "            0                                                          0
        4-Birds                                            0                                                          /J            17.f)                                                        1).0                                              l'J
                                                                      o.o tJ,{
I       5-Clouds_ Oust. etc.
        6-lnsuffit.lnfo.
                                     0
                                     "{
                                                0
                                                0
                                                           tJ
                                                            J        9.11        0.0 1.IJ.
                                                                                            {),(,        tJ
                                                                                                         :'f
                                                                                                                      t}
                                                                                                                     /J
                                                                                                                             t)
                                                                                                                             3
                                                                                                                                    a~
                                                                                                                                   9.-1
                                                                                                                                              0.0
                                                                                                                                             !?,/)
                                                                                                                                                          /)I,
                                                                                                                                                         l,3
                                                                                                                                                                   t}
                                                                                                                                                                    /           ()
                                                                                                                                                                                    6    tJ tJ.O
                                                                                                                                                                                          I II, I
                                                                                                                                                                                                           l,t}
                                                                                                                                                                                                          1H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   tJ,/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  //,/       /q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0            0      ,&
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,., /tf 1,~q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           a.If      {J./2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /J/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               P.t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2Pf




I
        7-Psychological
        &-Unknown
    9-0lhe,


           Total                u
                                 /3
                                     /

                                  ,.,2         /

                                               3
                                                ()
                                                   /J



                                                          ~
                                                             I
                                                          13 "/I)
                                                          3 lo,;;
                                                                     1.1          (},(;
                                                                                  /ii, /1().1
                                                                                  '1.1

                                                                   t:JLJ.~ 9. f 11P~ .Z..9
                                                                                            J, I

                                                                                            'l.l
                                                                                                     //
                                                                                                         /

                                                                                                         /

                                                                                                                  7
                                                                                                                    ,1
                                                                                                                    /)

                                                                                                                   .,l
                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                            ti J()C,
                                                                                                                            3 ;,,g
                                                                                                                                  :7,

                                                                                                                                             .~
                                                                                                                                             tH
                                                                                                                                              OJ) 71?,i



                                                                                                                            u 1110.t: /9, '/ l!OV.
                                                                                                                                                         2.i

                                                                                                                                                         '/.ti-
                                                                                                                                                                    ()
                                                                                                                                                                   .:2


                                                                                                                                                                   8
                                                                                                                                                                    ()
                                                                                                                                                                                ()
                                                                                                                                                                                CJ

                                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                                   0     0

                                                                                                                                                                                          t)

                                                                                                                                                                                          p
                                                                                                                                                                                                  ao t7.o tJO
                                                                                                                                                                                         .2. l.22.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                  OJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                          (J.0 22.l
                                                                                                                                                                                                          V,()

                                                                                                                                                                                                Rfq /(I llb't1.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I),()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .:l

                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -9'ti,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            C,


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  tJ ~.d A/I /).(J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   f Pit /J.11 t'I-J'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  z. ~1 /) t1 J,7

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8 Jp lff5.1. 1</.f 100.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .
I                              ~/ll?t,£


                                  ~ .J'EL OA//?S
                                             Number
                                                          /I /dr?



                                                             Percent
                                                                     /E!S5
                                                                         .d>(P
                                                                                         /?.s-1
                                                                               6-/v' 5.F£t1JV.P.J'
                                                                                    Number                 Per Coll                Nul!d>er
                                                                                                                                              SFCt?A/PS
                                                                                                                                                        Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                            S/1,(,h'T//Vr. .S


                                                                                                                                                                            ,3 /-'5',::J ..J'Et:.11.,YL;,,1
                                                                                                                                                                        /~?tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                Number               Per Cent



I                               Certain Ooobtful Tomi Certain DoubtfuI Tomi Certain Oocl>lful Total Certain Doubltil Total Certain Doubtful Tomi Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu Total Certain Ooobtful Total
             Evaluation
        0-B~loon                     I}      0 I        Q 0.                   tJ        /) o., /}   M Q()                      ti      ,1   ()           0.0
                                                                                                                                                           II.I? ~{j t'J                          OR
                                                                                                                                                                                   0 {? 0..0 ~I) 0,()
        I-Astronom1cal               _..,-         _:;      '7 ,;17 lr.,7 ~?.'!                       .;;           /]       L Y«O OP 'IV                           ,;;,           0     2. 1~~1 /)_I) B,3 /]                               /       I       P.I)        '.N-0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -,,1_/)

                                     I                       I        I'~        o.o 5,1                     I                I '".0 0,1) 20.P                     ~                     2 1.,,_~, P.O 33. 3 .3                                 I JI.     ,..,.,,, ~.I. &atJ
        2-Ai,cratt                                  t:
                                                                                  o_o 00                              "                                             .,,
                                                                                                                                                                                (7

                                                                                                                                                                                               p;; l)O II.I? ·t'l                           ,., p n; I)() (/I?
I                                                                                                                            11 /,/) 01) P.()
        3-LighlPhOIOIII.             tJ             t'l      I)       0.0                                t'l          /J                                                        t'J      t)
        4-Birds                      ()            0        tJ        P.o        (JO  0.0                /J           0     ~      00        ().()        Po        0           /          I  /}_I) /,-7 1n    0                            0      C,       ().(}    Pt)      co
        S-Clouds. Dust, etc.      t1                        ()        0,0         0.0 00                 0          0       fl      01)       0,/)       /JI)                            tJ P.tJ P./) v.o ()                                0              P.P 0,0 tJ.(J
        6-lnsuffic.tnfo.         d              t'J
                                                   /l

                                                            /)        0/)         0.0      {)IJ          t?         a       /)      M         /)j)       {}.()     "
                                                                                                                                                                   11
                                                                                                                                                                                tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                tJ        ,:) 0./J !llJ I.II  0                             tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,:)      00 01? /)./J

I                                                                     O..P        il.O     /J,I!                             tJ     0.11     0,1)        /)_I)                           I)       1./J    p,I)      9.P                           ()        /lo       /).f}    /)(l
                                                                                                     "
        7-Psychological          cJ             t'J        I/                                                         ()                                           ()           ,:;/                                          /')       /)

        8,,Unkno'MI                  y           11         JI. 1-2,u            0.0 g51             ,,2            t}       7    ~~         P.P ,¢1).IJ            /           ()        I     16,7 Q,0 /t.7                 ,J        (J         p        Pl,       fl) !l.lJ
        9-0ther                   ()               t'J      0         (1()       0.0 0.0              0            0        tJ    /)()       I)!}        0.{J       t?             CJ     11     N        tJ I)     pp            0     tJ         /)       /}./J     P.V O.tJ
                                                                                                                             ,,             00 m                   s                      6 J<i,.3 ,,.J ltJP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        "' s
I          Total                10             :2          /:l l11l3 /{,_ 7                /Of.       5'           0              JJl/1_~                                       I                                             3                           ~I',      1/o.ll //P.




I            Evaluation
        0-Balloon
        1-Astronomical
                                             -
                                 ti .SEc,,JVPs - . : /1'/,wvr.cs
                                Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tomi ·-•~n Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Ooobtful Tomi Certain Doubtful Total
                                  ~                /        3
                                                            I
                                                              PerCBII


                                                                     ~jlf.J !'f.3 .,z_
                                                                      'f.f 'IX '3
                                                                     t)()
                                                                                   6-3,t) #,,,V,,.rE-,
                                                                                      Number                Per Cent


                                                                                                                    d
                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                              ?JVER .5.1/ ffilVt/T,/?.f
                                                                                                                                 Number


                                                                                                                             .1. 110.5
                                                                                                                            J+ /5,9          n
                                                                                                                                                       Per Cent

                                                                                                                                              (}.II /0-5
                                                                                                                                         '),/.f
                                                                                                                                                                    /
                                                                                                                                                                               /l/4r
                                                                                                                                                                               Number

                                                                                                                                                                                   ()
                                                                                                                                                                                   /
                                                                                                                                                                                           I ;<(.:
                                                                                                                                                                                         2..
                                                                                                                                                                                              TAT$P
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Per Cent

                                                                                                                                                                                                           il(} lf3
                                                                                                                                                                                                 l'f·3 If.) U6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -;;:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                :3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            JS"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6,5       If. 3 /PJ'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           15 Ii 7. { 23. 'f
I
                                     /)            /                                                                                                                /                                                                       ':}
        2-Aircraft                   .-r            /       4 114'. - If Y 11./    ,.2                              3       ~ /b.'{ /$:9 1'-3                       /              t1     I      /1/.5    O,CJ fll.3          ...::z.   /         3        ,;/.3 :2 .:)       '.$'
        3-Li&ht Phenom.              ,.,            /        I        Ot H 'U                            0            0      tJ    (J_(}     (J.tJ        (/_/)     0               0     (l     IJ.(J    tl.Cl P.D           /         0          I        ~ 7      O.tl     :n
                                                                                                                                                         r.o                                                        c.o
        4-Birds                       CJ            0        t)       0./J tl,()           00
                                                                                                         " 0                cJ      O.tJ
                                                                                                                                    ~o
                                                                                                                                             IJ.0                   (}

                                                                                                                                                                    "
                                                                                                                                                                                    0     b' tJ.v'
                                                                                                                                                                                                 o.v
                                                                                                                                                                                                          f(}                 0         /l        LI       M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OJ) 00


I       ~Clouds, Oust, etc.          ()            0         tJ      Oil ll,{) (l/l                      ()           ()    tJ               00          (J,()                     ()     t)              Cl()     17,C        CJ       /]         tJ                O,(}     {)V
        6--lnsuHit. Into.            I             ()        I       19 o.o 1./.'I                           /        0      I <.~ M                     n          ..1.           (J    z      -,9,,:; (J_{} 2J.6           /()        tJ IP __,, J Q.0 1.J. 7
        7-Psycllolo&ical          {)            /            I       0() lf.f              'lk           0            /')    ()   0.CJ       I.I) IJ,()             t}             0     rJ      otJ 1,0 PP                   I         0   I ~-::; (}CJ J.'J
        8-Unlalo..,               1             0           p '3'1./            0.()       Jt.l          SI           11     II .zl.l        ao 'JI.I                   /       /)        I     llf.3     f.tJ    /il-.3     /~         (J /3 ?9,                    C.tJ 2?. ...
                                                            .z                              v;                               :r /ff                                                              o.o               t?,(I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OrJ 'f. 3
I                                                                               o.cJ                     3                                              IS.J.>
        ~111..                    ,,2_         ()                    9,                                             ()                       I,()                   d           0        /)               t',/)              .::J       /j  ?  <I.'

           Total                16             5          -Z./ 7C,.). 23. 't /ti(!.                 15'            If       /9 7i.1 :ii. I /PP.                    ~               I      7 ~f.7 IY.3 /00. 35' II                                         11r.l 1.73. '1 ;QO.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  "'
I                                                                                                                                  163

I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                               £:J(,91.(//IT((?A/                          t7P          &Jgt!r           SfGl{Dlt/GS                 If</    LJ//Jf&Trt2A/           P,&'       S/G/0"'/IV~,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
     Evaluation
~Balloon
1-Astnl"!)ffliCII
                            I
                         t:r/
                                   -~J) H
                                               lfS:Z
                          ~ <i'ECtllV/?5 A.up/ PSS
                                                      Per Cent
                        Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful! Total
                                    ✓ (.  0.5 ;t71 J.2
                                          ~'I Ii' I< so.o
                                                          ,<-/tJ



                                                                          /Jl
                                                                                Number



                                                                                  ;-,
                                                                                          f Ft:t>IYPS


                                                                                         '10 -'J:J:i.
                                                                                                      Per Cent
                                                                         ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                          ;2        J/;'         _? <



                                                                                    ia.4 /91 ,n an :2.Y
                                                                                                          ~~    ,.i
                                                                                                         /Iii 31.0
                                                                                                                        tj
                                                                                                                       11
                                                                                                                              ll-3tJ Srct!J¥P.s
                                                                                                                              Number


                                                                                                                                  6 /0 _, 9
                                                                                                                                  7 2/f U/
                                                                                                                                                    Per Cent

                                                                                                                                                       y~ 1.1.
                                                                                                                                                       ,\.Ii 17./
                                                                                                                                                                        3/-L~

                                                                                                                                                                        g
                                                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                                                            Number


                                                                                                                                                                                'l /7"
                                                                                                                                                                                 ~ /0
                                                                                                                                                                                           ,'J,FCt>IVRf
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Per Cent


                                                                                                                                                                                                 7. t) 7.i l'I. ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                t.. /      J.i    8.1    I
2-Aircrlft                /9       ~,I 38  '1.i /t.9 7.0.7                JI..                                                   ?.J
                                                                                                                                         ,.
                                                                                                                                       t& 1-?/l / ?A,,j 14'o.o ;J./ 17 38 /1.1, /Y.J 33.1
>Liat,tPll1110m.
4·Birds
S-Clouds. Dus~ et~
                           J
                           /
                           0
                                    ..,
                                     -:i
                                      I
                                           f
                                           4-
                                               I
                                                    .s
                                                     s /.(" :z. I
                                           ,, '19 0,0 H
                                                   4.11
                                                           /. I /.,

                                                            s o.s
                                                                           iJ
                                                                          /)
                                                                            I       ,? I /, 1 1U ,.1
                                                                                     I I d.P /J /, '1.
                                                                                    I,    0      (}.0
                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                         tU o. 0         0
                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                 tJ
                                                                                                                                 ,;;    ,. . i
                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                ? .7 /.4'

                                                                                                                                              ,11)
                                                                                                                                                     ,7dti
                                                                                                                                                       / ~
                                                                                                                                                    I. tf
                                                                                                                                                                 11  .:; 1

                                                                                                                                                                        ,, aI 0 o.o
                                                                                                                                                                       .:l
                                                                                                                                                                           11 /l l.'1 /. 7
                                                                                                                                                                                I?   ~  q
                                                                                                                                                                                    (} ,0 q.l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ~-,    I
6-tnsolli~ Info.            9        t'1                                   C.       11    (;     H       O.I 7-'f      Id        CJ I b 1/ o.o 1./                      9   ()        f
                                                                                                                                                                                     ()-0       1. 'I             7-8
                                                                                                                                                                                                          o.o /, 7
·-                                      '2. J I n (} I. I ()                                     0       o.o o.l          y      I 5     'JJl () '] J.,                ;;;      ()              /.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
7-PsydDJo&i<II            .1         11                                             /)    0                                                                                          i,
                         JQ          A  If /A 1 o.o If. J / j                      ~     1'3 1/i?        D-1 1,.0 ~              () ::/2 1<l o.o /5.7                 ~I         " 31 21/J
                                                                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                                                                                          o.v no
!l,Qa,.,                   V        ,j 10   ~.3 I. f 5.'f I                        ,1      I     /:l     0.0 /. i.        <I      !I 9 2.q .2.9 5,f(                    I      _:)    _g        /l 9      1.7     :{.t

                                                                         f1 ;/ 'f        XI 70.'I ,,,, /.. ,hi_ 'II lf9 1ro r:.<.0 l-t(11 /di.                       e, 31 J/< ~1/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
    Total               1'23       f.l II.ft/ ,¼J 11~ 1 10a                                                                                                                                             ""'.(.;   /40.




      Evaluation
II-Balloon
                        £/.f',:Ct:?/1/15 -.Ffe,11vTFS



                          ~!it
                                Number

                                   f,2.
                                                       Per Cent

                                       10 11": II/, ;n ,:;
                                                                          ,5-~tJ fa'//,vvr/;S
                                                                                Number                PerCmt

                                                                                  1A 90 111 lt1.f.. 28.3 ,;JI
                                                                                                                         ////FH
                                                                                                                              Nulltler

                                                                                                                                 /~
                                                                                                                                        -:I~ ,4{/,yvrFs
                                                                                                                                                    Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                             Mr
                                                                                                                                                                            Number

                                                                                                                                      H t.J:d f.' 2l~ ..2~ IL 'f Q 11,.S Ci /'I.?..
                                                                                                                                                                                          L. TATEi?
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Per Co,t
                        Certain 0OIJbtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certai n Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Cerlain Doubtfu Total Certain Doubtful Total         I
                            -,       G B ,1? ., ? J.'t IS                         N   J 3 C1 './.J II.(,                 .,,          J3 j(/1 q3 21., ~f,I         fi J t "i< 2:i I/ 3

                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
1-A-ical                                                                                                                         /1
2-Airaalt                 f/(1     f/S H II/.', /0 l.?u., .t                      ,JJ U, ld.:2 9'.5 lt.7                  1       ? I 'f bO 0 11.4 :.'~ -::2J/ K&' / ~ / 'i. s 20,(,
3-1.iat,tl'tllllOffl.      s        ..7        7    I.~    ,1,?   :,.s     A       s 18 1/C, /. <J ,.11
                                                                                          ,, o.o (l.0 o.,                 I      .:J
                                                                                                                                      J A.7 I. 'I             u1 CJ J' /.1 o.t I. I
4-Sinls                        /    ~          I   tJ. ~   4./)   ,.'f     t)      ()                                    .2       11 fZ,    I~ (J. 0 I.If      I   IJ I d'I- 0.0 P.Lf
                                                    o.,
S-Clouds, Du>~ et~
6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
7-Psyct,olosical
                           t)
                          /l
                            r./
                                     ":f
                                     t1
                                      ~
                                         17 1../
                                          7 I.~
                                               3           I.I /./
                                                           o. p   ,., I
                                                                    .2/1
                                                           I,/ ~-5 '1
                                                                                    I

                                                                                    0
                                                                                           i ,1.~ ;t/ o.8
                                                                                   tJ tlf (/.S           IU 8.5
                                                                                               1 ~.< 0.0 2.5      '¥
                                                                                                                          /       0
                                                                                                                                  ()
                                                                                                                                   J
                                                                                                                                       I 111 o./J P. 1
                                                                                                                                       I, 'I'. 3 ,u f./.J ~7
                                                                                                                                       1 :J.9 0.7 3.t
                                                                                                                                                              /
                                                                                                                                                             ,;/.
                                                                                                                                                                  0 /     tJ. </
                                                                                                                                                                  0 1,1 ., ~ O.P 23-J
                                                                                                                                                                  / .5' l.l. ~ 0 IJ /. I
                                                                                                                                       33 ..2.(t. 0.0 :ll(, C.'5 ,, 1,g 7:J_~
                                                                                                                                                                                 OJ) Q.lf
                                                                                                                                                                                                 .                       I
8-Untmo"1                '71          t) 7/        -,s.,   o.o 25.i ,('/
                                                           u                       .,
                                                                                    tJ .f'I H./J         o.O 1/.D       "r•        /l                                                iv,
                                                                                                                                                                                                           '· '
!1-0a,er


    Total               1e6
                           (         d         9 ..7.9            :. f    //)            /1.     l< 11. 7 1/.2 1                  .~ IQ     .<.o _-1./ 1., /_j / J5 \'.(-◄ I). I/ lf,.7
                                   '1 I ?77 le.?./ ~.9 //J(J. ;/Of 7'l ~JP 172. I 219 I II. JO~ 38 1/v'JJ 112.9 1.:rJ / I IP. 231 so I-ii'/ 11/:?,;l 11. f ltJCJ.                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                     164                                                                                                                 1·
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
I
I
I                             1119.!tli
                                           ,_
                                               /lltJ.t
                                                                                  MP/I/            h'S           ~             II.                                  I                £e               s                       LcSS




I
             Efll•tioo
    Jl.8111111111
    1-Asblllmical
                                   t)
                                   5
                                         - /)

                                          21
                                                             PerC01I
                               Cet1ain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tola!

                                                      0        tJ.t?   {).() t).I)
                                               .Z6 /1,.7 l?'JJ.0 'rit. 7
                                                                                         ertain Doubtful Tolal Certain
                                                                                           ,,
                                                                                          #'
                                                                                                Number


                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                         /.
                                                                                                               ,r£4~,,,,,,.,,


                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                       PerCOII

                                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                                       11./J tUJ 0. ()
                                                                                                                10 J/,JI 5"1.!i  'IIJ.9
                                                                                                                                                             Number


                                                                                                                                                            ()
                                                                                                                                                                            MA,UH

                                                                                                                                               Tolal Certain l)o,mtful Total Certain Oaubtlul Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doldltlul Total


                                                                                                                                                            t,
                                                                                                                                                                    ,:;,
                                                                                                                                                                     fl'
                                                                                                                                                                                    Per Cent


                                                                                                                                                                              0 ')11 '! /, /J.O
                                                                                                                                                                             I~ f7.5 5lJ.o S'/6
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Number



                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Per Cent


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,4,,:,~,,


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   51.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /_/./
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /J/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,, /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      s. II,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     £/./
    2-Airaalt                      /)      /J    0 /J.t) /1/J                   ,., ,,     /J            ,:,      0     /),;          /)_/, (J.IJ           A       0         0      '1./J   ,,   ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                          /2(}       ,?_         ()        2       //.I     ,1,/J     I/./



I
    HiJl!,tl'II01oll.              (J       ,:   0 t).() f?/! /J.tJ                        t7            ,0       0    /1/l           IJ./} /) /J          .d       0         0     /J. tJ   IJ.o         f?n        t7          n          ()     /J/J     /J /J     (1.,:J




          _
    4-Birds                       L7       /J         0       /)/J     /J. ,1 IJ.t)       0              ,?       t)   /]_/J         IJ.,J /1_/!           /J       ~         0     /}./}    /J,.,        /).,:;     /J             I          I    /2(7    ..,(I,   !!!,./,
    5-Cloads,Dost.ot,             t7       0          0       (J.()    17.0 0. C,          ,?            t)       t? I}/)            /J.() O.r:J            0      ,,,        t>    ao       /},/)        tJ.tJ      /J         ,?          I']    .17.0    d.t7      /1_/J

    &-_,Info_                     L7       0          0       IJ.C,    tJ. () I?()        t7             0        0 /}/} /J. r:J               /J.()        ,       0        I £..5 #.tJ I,, .J                      /.         0          I       ,;;-" 4 / J "'/.
    ..                                                                                    p

I
    7-Psydlolo&ical                                    I 2. q                   .?..1                    t7      0     I}.()         tJ.t?                                   0 o.tJ (J.t) fln                                              0       AtJ 0.0 /}.,t')
                                  2
                                   I       0
                                           0          2       ~.7
                                                                       11.0
                                                                       ·1" '-',?          ,:,            /)       t1 IJ.(}           ,,,, O.t)
                                                                                                                                          ().()            " ,,,
                                                                                                                                                            /
                                                                                                                                                                    ,!J
                                                                                                                                                                              I 1..$ tJ. tJ i,.S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0         z //./ ,?_/J //./
    9-0tller                       ,:,     I           I      17.()    ,r.s 5-1            /             0        I    y/ IJ.r:J               fl          t)      t)         0      II.()   11/J 0.LJ               t)         ,:;,       0        A/J    o.o t7.o



I           TDIIII                R Z<! 30 21,.1 '11.5 /(JP,                             s               ~      // ¢5'.5 5//fi /(JU.                       Ir      'If       /(:,   ~o 5lJ.tl //)/).                17          I        Ill' 9d"' 5.(,              voo.


                                                  ,.,,,,,,,
I            Evaluation
                                        Number                Percent                 Number
                                Certain ODUbtful Total Certain Doomtful Total Certain Dotmtful Total Certain
                                                                                                                Jv•e
                                                                                                             Per Cent
                                                                                                                      Tolal
                                                                                                                                 - ,,.,                          Nuoller
                                                                                                                                                                             ,./4.uu


                                                                                                                                                          ertain Doubtful Total Certain
                                                                                                                                                                                             - -
                                                                                                                                                                                        Per COit
                                                                                                                                                                                                          TDIIII certain
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A11,tsvsr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PerCOlt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Tolal Certain lllllblllll TDIIII
        0-11111-                    /J     n      0
                                                       .,
                                                        ,,_,,
                                                                n.n o.o           I       LJ      I 3.7 0.0 Z.7
                                                                                                                 ,g 37.0 Z'f.(;
                                                                                                                                       ./  .2, 3 0.9 If 2.7         /,J                                                         ...J'      .7       /).0   5.5         1,'5


I       1-A-ical
        2-Airmft
        3-LiJIIII PIIOIDII.
        4-Birds
                                  ~
                                  17

                                  0
                                   t.      J

                                           /}

                                           u
                                              I
                                                              25:o l!.6 •:,,t,;.
                                                      G 12DS' 4./ N9
                                                      CJ 4/J ,,_ /J '1 n
                                                      0 IJ./J l?.tJ t).0
                                                                                          ,d


                                                                                           ,,
                                                                                           .7

                                                                                           ,,
                                                                                                         .I



                                                                                                         n
                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                         C)
                                                                                                                  'I- //. I 3.7 N-.8 , I /~. 23 IJJ.I I/.(} ?I I 1
                                                                                                                  ()
                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                       0./)

                                                                                                                        o.P
                                                                                                                                     f,fl ~,; 6Z r,!11' 21.0 St-.1 IS-

                                                                                                                                      a()

                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                /).0
                                                                                                                                                d.D
                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                    p
                                                                                                                                                                    .2-       J
                                                                                                                                                                               I     IJ. 9
                                                                                                                                                                                    /J. 4
                                                                                                                                                                                             O.IJ tJ.9
                                                                                                                                                                                              /.R 2.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              UA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .s-s J'/.1/ I.IL,; L::!'i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           II .!.6 ~.§ IJ.R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I 0-0 u     /?.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0 tJ.0 o.o d.O

I   5-Cloods, Dus~ et,
    6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
    7-Psycholoaical
    8-Unkno-,
                                  ..,
                                   /

                                   n
                                   ~
                                           tJ
                                           t)
                                           ,0
                                              n       I 41
                                                      3 11.'>
                                                      0 ~/)
                                                      z
                                                                        ~~

                                                                        ,,_,,

                                                                   /J./J t"J.o
                                                              ~ f /J.O J?.1
                                                                                 /11
                                                                                12.s
                                                                                           0
                                                                                           f
                                                                                            tJ
                                                                                           tJ
                                                                                                         n
                                                                                                         I)
                                                                                                         p
                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                 3
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                  ()    ,i?O
                                                                                                                       II.I
                                                                                                                        c.o
                                                                                                                        ao
                                                                                                                                     0. t>

                                                                                                                                     o.o //./
                                                                                                                                     ,:J.O
                                                                                                                                     o.P 0.0
                                                                                                                                                ,t)_ t)



                                                                                                                                               o.o
                                                                                                                                                            IJ
                                                                                                                                                            ,
                                                                                                                                                           /J
                                                                                                                                                           /?_
                                                                                                                                                                     p
                                                                                                                                                                    t?
                                                                                                                                                                    (I
                                                                                                                                                                        I     I
                                                                                                                                                                              z
                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                     /).0

                                                                                                                                                                                     /$
                                                                                                                                                                                     /).0

                                                                                                                                                                             12 //. ()
                                                                                                                                                                                             ().9 0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                             o.o   /R
                                                                                                                                                                                             ().0 ().0
                                                                                                                                                                                             ().0 I/ I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IJ        tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                t)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0 tJ.IJ (}.P o.()


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           'I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           C,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    :(()     ~-()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I?, (}.tJ 1.,2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '/.tJ (7.0 '/.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      10



I   9-0ther

    I       TDIIII              Zt)
                                   ?      0           3 lf.6

                                          ¥ Zl.f f.!..J /£. 'I 1100. 18
                                                                       /).I}    /2.5       I             t)


                                                                                                         "1 ;z7
                                                                                                                  I    "3.7


                                                                                                                       "'·' S~s Joo.
                                                                                                                                     If).{!)   3.7         2.

                                                                                                                                                          l!.9
                                                                                                                                                                    I}       .e J..i
                                                                                                                                                                 U.I /09 ,2.11 ff.t,
                                                                                                                                                                                             (}, () I. R


                                                                                                                                                                                                      //)/}_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2              I      3 2.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    33 S-3 Jf~ gf_l/ ~//, Joa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /.:2,      fG




I                                         S&"1rEHdl!U                                   /Jero4c-'
                                                                                                    _,
                                                                                                                                       A/n,,,:,wdeA!                          /J~t'G",c, ,,,,,e,
    I Evaluation                        Number            Per Cent                                      Per Cent                Nuoller               Per COit               Number               Per COit



I
                                Certain D"'btful Total cmn Doomtful Total Certain Doomtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total certain Doubtful Tot~ Certain Doubtfu Total Certain Doubtful Tolal
                                                                                                                  z ~tl 5:1, ,;_(,                                                                        ,,.,,,_
        0.11111...                 0       /)          I?      o.o      IJ.O    o.o            IJ        :t.
                                                                                                         t Z3 //:tt //._ 7 'L.7.9
                                                                                                                                                            ,d       0        0 tJ.() /J_n
                                                                                                                                                                             -:?.I }',JI_ 9'F. ..1 11:1.11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,   . I.?. z'f" /J.tJ ,;,,,_,., RP.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IJ                  r:J./J 12(}
        1-Asbonoeical
        2-Aircraft
                                  ·'1.
                                           !Z.
                                              I       /-:/ ,:-,( I Q.f 1£1.9
                                                       3 1/1' 9.5 l;i/_J
                                                                                          17
                                                                                               I         .J'      'f ?.1 l1 //.I
                                                                                                                                                           -?
                                                                                                                                                           fl
                                                                                                                                                                   /U

                                                                                                                                                                      I        3 II,.'/ .?.4 :,,,__1                     ,,                 t:J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ~/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,,,, IJ.n /J.t,
                                   ,,I                                                                                               t.i 2.f                                                 ,,_,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ll



I                                                      0 o.a o.o t!>.o
        3-LiJIIIIPII-                      tJ                                                             I        / I /J.tJ                                                   I ..r.'rl            ?.u"                                    0       /J/J    "?" /J.r:J
                                                       0 IJ.,1 IJ.() 'ln
                                                                                           t7
                                                                                                          I       z u                ?.K 5.L                ,, ,,
                                                                                                                                                            /        t7
                                                                                                                                                                              0 .i.O /J.IJ l?.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      t7         Ll
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 n          tJ
        4-Birds
        5-Clouds, Dist, etc.       ,,
                                   /J      /J
                                           (J          0       /J.tJ 11./J       IJ/)      I)
                                                                                               I
                                                                                                         Cl      (} tJ.() 0.0 IJ.LJ                        t)       t7         ()    tJ.O    /J.O         IJ/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     tl          tl        t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /J/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /1/1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /}_()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /J.IJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /J./J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /J/.

        6-tnsuffic.~ID..          2-       tJ          ,2      9.5.     /Jn     9~             I         IJ       I 2. f /J.tl f.f                          p       0          D    IJ.()    /},/)        /?A        0          ,?          0       /JO  tJ.O /J./J

I       7-Psycholoaical
        11-l)dmo•
    9-0ther                       D
                                   ,?

                                   ?.     ,,0
                                           I
                                                       0       /J.t)
                                                       z 9.., /J.I) ¥.5
                                                       I      o.tJ
                                                                       tJ.()


                                                                        1/.f
                                                                                /}.()


                                                                                .t/R
                                                                                           j
                                                                                           0
                                                                                            IJ            t7
                                                                                                         /J
                                                                                                         ()
                                                                                                                 tJ /).() 0.0 Ot7
                                                                                                                 3 IH
                                                                                                                 tJ tJ. tJ
                                                                                                                                     /}.()
                                                                                                                                     /J.IJ I},,
                                                                                                                                               ~g
                                                                                                                                                           tl
                                                                                                                                                           5
                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                    /J
                                                                                                                                                                    t)
                                                                                                                                                                    ()
                                                                                                                                                                              0 tJ. tJ /J.O I t7.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                              3 /tl.3 IJ.tJ /tH
                                                                                                                                                                              I     Jq       ,1/J ?.ef
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ()


                                                                                                                                                                                                                     p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         t.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 t7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                t7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           £
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ll.ll /l(} 11/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RtJ.n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    tJ.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           () (}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /}./}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2P,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IJ.0



I           TDIIII              17        t./ ZI lf/.tJ lf.tJ 10(). li!3 /.'?                                   "3(,, ~.f. 4 ~,.1 /PP.                    /fl. /~ 29 ¢f.J ~/.7 ,ti?.                                /~        /:Z         c?t:I t./J_/1    ~o /(JI).




I
I
I
I
I                                                                                                                       165

I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                   Nu-
                                                   </_.9AI ,_..._,,.,,,1.

                                                         Per Cent
                                                                           £{f,9L tMT(P/1/
                                                                           rat         MPl//:r/lS
                                                                                                          tJF l?LL



                                                                                                       Number
                                                                                                                   OF
                                                                                                              r/ffARvA,ev
                                                                                                                             Per Cent                                   Number
                                                                                                                                                                                    M-4R~~
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Per Cent   Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,,t/l"lf'lt.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Percent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                           Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total                        ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total                  ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tat~


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
         Evaluation
    0-Balloon                 tl        /J                  /J    tJ.o         o.O d.O            /)        ,:,      tJ        /JO        ,?£, LJ.O             I}            tJ         tl    /J /)       /)/)      /J./7     tl         tl           17     (;).<l        11.0    o.o
    l•Astronomical            /         5                 &      //./ §5.I. 1.1...J              I          tl       I       /m,         /J /'}   l/h:10        I             /)         I    it. 7        IJ.I} lt..7         L          /J          1! I II. J.          O.fJ If. 2,
    2•Aircraft                .?           /             I       tJ.0 ti. I            II. I      /J          /J    Cl        /Jr-        ,,,, /J./,)              I          /J         I    //.. 7      /2.17 ;,:..;t         ✓          /          ff ?I...¢            fl      4~5


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
    3-Liahl Phenom.           /J        /J               tJ      0.0
                                                                              "· 0
                                                                                        o.o      tl        /)           ;;, /J."7         /J/J      /Jr.        I}            /)      t:l      /J.~        /}/)      tJ.O       /J            /)      ,?      /1.0          o.tJ    ().t)
    4•Birds                   17        t?               /J       o.o         o.o      0,0       /J        /}       /?        /J,t)      tJ,?      tM           /             /J       I      //... 7       ./! /J /L.7        tl             /J      /J      tJ.O          C}.O    0.0
    S-Clouds, DusL el~        tJ        /J              /J       d.0          P.fJ      ao t?              /)       C1        IJ/J       /J/J       ,1/J        tJ         ,?         /J       /J.tJ       /J.IJ      /]/'J    /J         tl          /J       tJ.o         tUl     o.o
    6-lnsuffic. -.11.         /         /J                  I    ti./         0.0 II. I          tJ         t?      CJ tJ.o f)IJ                   (J./J        /J         t:l        tJ IJtl f)tJ tJ.tJ                        I         tJ           I       I/,/        0,(1     I/. I
                                                                              o.o
                                                                  0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               "·"
                                                                                                 tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
    7-P,ydlolo~cal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /J.O
    &-Unknown
                              /)

                                 /
                                        /,)

                                        Cl
                                                         /)

                                                            I    //./         (),0
                                                                                        "·"
                                                                                       I/. I      £1
                                                                                                           /)
                                                                                                           £1
                                                                                                                    Cl
                                                                                                                    tl /J/1
                                                                                                                             Clo         -'?"
                                                                                                                                        /}t)
                                                                                                                                                   (?.tJ
                                                                                                                                                   t?.tJ
                                                                                                                                                               tJ
                                                                                                                                                               J'
                                                                                                                                                                          /J
                                                                                                                                                                          tJ         1
                                                                                                                                                                                      /J       /J./J      t?.tl t)O
                                                                                                                                                                                         !i'J.A tJ.CJ 5tll)                    _,tl       tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              tJ      1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            111
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           "'" ?1J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,:J.O
    9-011,e,                  /J        tl               /J      tJ.()        (7.0      ().0     /J        CJ       0        /)tJ       tJtJ       t?/l         17         /J         /J /J.tJ ,?, /J /J.O                     tl         tl          /J      (7.{)        o.o 4'.0
        Tolll                .?        t.                f       55.1 M•. 7 /nn.                  I        tJ       I        /1,>).tJ tltl lt:¥7.              b          CJ          /. ltt1t1.t:> t?.tl la?.                 /(J       I           II       911.9        ?.I /al
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
         Evaluation
    0-Balloon                 I
                                     Number


                                       tl
                                                   M",/


                                                            I
                                                                            Per Cent
                           Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total L;ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu Total Certain Ooobtful Total
                                                                 $'..J c,_t) g .J                    I
                                                                                                         Number


                                                                                                           IJ
                                                                                                                     ;,, e


                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                       Per Cent


                                                                                                                              5.tJ /J.IJ
                                                                                                                                                      Per Cent

                                                                                                                                                   J;'O             I
                                                                                                                                                                        Nuntier
                                                                                                                                                                              Number


                                                                                                                                                                              /)
                                                                                                                                                                                    Ju.:,1
                                                                                                                                                                                                   PerCmt


                                                                                                                                                                                             I ~,:; 0./J N/                     /J        ✓
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,4,,.,,_ rr



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       d       II.Cl l1S 111.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                 25:tJ        tJ.tJ ?.:;.o                                                                                           20 JI/. I Ill. 111g_7                                               ;. t/ lf.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
    l•Astronomical           ..f       /}               .5'                                       (        '1       //7 i,;-o ft;: tJ              ,;-'/);J    /fl             £                                                    f     f           /4       ?.,II
    2--Aircraft              .2,        I               J        /t.1 f.! 2![_()                     !     tJ       .!       /C:.tl      /J.O      IS.tJ        I             ,:-     //       /1/6 12.2 20                     g          ~ 12, 25-tJ 12:s- .J1. 5
    3·Liehl Phl!IOm.
    4-Birds
                             /J
                              :?
                                        I
                                        t)              /J
                                                          /
                                                                  "·" f.J
                                                                  I),()
                                                                      M
                                                                          f. J
                                                                                       (J,tJ
                                                                                                  Ll
                                                                                                  /J
                                                                                                          J'
                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                    J
                                                                                                                    tJ
                                                                                                                              0.tJ 15'.0 /5'/J
                                                                                                                              //"
                                                                                                                                          ,.,,, /] /J
                                                                                                                                                               ,(J

                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                           I)

                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                      /J
                                                                                                                                                                                      /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                17,()
                                                                                                                                                                                               o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                           (J.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                           d.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     tJ.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     O.(,       tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I     tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           tl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I .f.l t!l. tl !.I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              tJ t?.tl /) /1 0.0
    §-Clouds. Dust. elc.
    6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
    7-Psychololital
                             z
                              tJ
                              tJ
                                       /)

                                       tJ
                                       tJ
                                                         tJ
                                                         2
                                                        /J
                                                                  11.tl
                                                                 /1,.J
                                                                  ,!}_(/
                                                                               ,P.0
                                                                              ,:J,O

                                                                             tJ. ()
                                                                                        O.tJ
                                                                                       //..1
                                                                                       ().0
                                                                                                 ()
                                                                                                  ?,
                                                                                                  tJ
                                                                                                          IJ
                                                                                                           /)

                                                                                                           IJ
                                                                                                                    tJ
                                                                                                                    2-
                                                                                                                    c7
                                                                                                                              ,1/J
                                                                                                                              //Jn

                                                                                                                              tl./J
                                                                                                                                         ,1./J


                                                                                                                                         17./J
                                                                                                                                                   l!./J
                                                                                                                                         tJ./J //1.0
                                                                                                                                                    /) /J
                                                                                                                                                                #
                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                               IJ
                                                                                                                                                                           /J
                                                                                                                                                                           ,?
                                                                                                                                                                          (J
                                                                                                                                                                                      /J
                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                      ,?
                                                                                                                                                                                               0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                               Pl
                                                                                                                                                                                               d.tl
                                                                                                                                                                                                           (}.flt?.t
                                                                                                                                                                                                           ().0 2.¥
                                                                                                                                                                                                           i:UJ ().0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                f!.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               /) tl.tJ /J. IJ ,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2- &.3 t7.0 I,...!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,,,      ,,_ /]      ,?./J    (J.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
    &-Unknown                 .t-       tl              2-       lt..7        ().0     //,.1      I        t'2          I     ,;:,:;      '!" 5.tJ              '?        tJ          7 11. I              t:),0     I 1./      6        tJ           I, !i'.'1            o.o 11.'1
9-0ther


I       Total
                              t)


                             It?
                                       cJ

                                       2,             12-
                                                         tl t:I.D             0.0 0.0

                                                                 vu lt.'1 /()/).
                                                                                                 /J


                                                                                                /tJ
                                                                                                           0

                                                                                                         It'
                                                                                                                    0         /J,.,



                                                                                                                   2tl ,</1,:, .c~o /()/J
                                                                                                                                         /J. /J     /l_A        I

                                                                                                                                                              .5'tl
                                                                                                                                                                           t)


                                                                                                                                                                          //
                                                                                                                                                                                       I       vi t?. ()
                                                                                                                                                                                     41/ 111'.Z H i /00.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1JI        /



                                                                                                                                                                                                                               21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         tJ


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I .5'/

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ??. /,!,.I,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          t7.tl    ._?,/



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         f/1.<i 1/1/J.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                     Number
                                                   ,5e,P7,,.,~A~,
                                                                           PerCenl                       Number
                                                                                                                /},_

                                                                                                                                       Per Cent                         Nuntier
                                                                                                                                                                                  A/t1uPMAPP

                                                                                                                                                                                                        Per Cent                        Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LJ1:e;:,~i,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Per Calt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
         Evaluation
    0.Balloon
    l•Astronomical
    2·Aircraft
                           Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Tolll Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu

                              /l
                              ~
                             ,?
                                        I
                                       2-
                                               I             I   /J,J

                                                         z /] /) ?/J./J 2tJ/J
                                                                             //) /J I //J /J
                                                         s 2/Jo /t). tJ J'tJ.O
                                                                                                  /J
                                                                                                 /,?
                                                                                                  /J       tl
                                                                                                              /J    0

                                                                                                                     tl
                                                                                                                               (l.(J
                                                                                                           ..! 15 ltt.7 Jt).tl 91..7
                                                                                                                              ",.,
                                                                                                                                          /JI} IJ.t)


                                                                                                                                          /1 /)      A
                                                                                                                                                               f
                                                                                                                                                                /)



                                                                                                                                                               ,?          /J
                                                                                                                                                                              ,?

                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                      n
                                                                                                                                                                                         tJ     /} /,

                                                                                                                                                                                      9" ✓zg /02 1,72
                                                                                                                                                                                                ,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                            IJ.t)


                                                                                                                                                                                                            11. /]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /}.{)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,(J

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          £
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Tolll Certain Ooobtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /J /.1 /J /) /} 1/J/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      J' 5J.3 ltt.1 ltlP. e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I? /J/J             /J./J    tJ /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,., ,,,
    3-Li&hl Phenom.
    4-Birds
    5-Clouds. Oust, etc.
    6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
                             tJ
                              /J
                             Ll
                              tJ
                                       0
                                        I
                                       t1
                                       IJ
                                                         t7 /JO /}./J /J. IJ
                                                          / /J. cJ It?. /J //J.IJ
                                                         /J o.t? t}.I)
                                                         tl (J.(J /)_ /J
                                                                            /J.tl
                                                                                        ,,,,,
                                                                                                 /J
                                                                                                 IJ
                                                                                                  /J
                                                                                                  (l
                                                                                                           IJ

                                                                                                            17
                                                                                                            cJ
                                                                                                              /)
                                                                                                                    /)

                                                                                                                    tl
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                              /J /J

                                                                                                                              tJ.(l
                                                                                                                              /l_/1

                                                                                                                             /J./}
                                                                                                                                          /]/]

                                                                                                                                         1)/J
                                                                                                                                         IJ/J
                                                                                                                                         IJ.IJ
                                                                                                                                                    /)/]

                                                                                                                                                    ,1/J
                                                                                                                                                    /)/)


                                                                                                                                                   0.()
                                                                                                                                                                tl
                                                                                                                                                                ,,J
                                                                                                                                                                /J
                                                                                                                                                                tJ
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                           IJ

                                                                                                                                                                           /J
                                                                                                                                                                           t)
                                                                                                                                                                                      Cl
                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                      ,?

                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                               IJ.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                               ""
                                                                                                                                                                                               17 /)
                                                                                                                                                                                               atJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                            tJ.()
                                                                                                                                                                                                           (2/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                           {){)
                                                                                                                                                                                                           /J.{)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      {JO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     {).(J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /J,1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /,J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         tl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /J./J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ~,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /?./J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /J./7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /}I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /]./]

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /J /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /'},,,,


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /J. /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /1,/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
    7-Psychological
    &-Unknown
9-0ther
                             5
                              t:l


                             .?
                                       tJ
                                      /)

                                       /J
                                                       17
                                                       J'
                                                        0
                                                                 th'J CJ.CJ IJ.O
                                                                 ~,1
                                                                 ,?. (J
                                                                              t}.IJ
                                                                              ,1.t?
                                                                                       !ao
                                                                                        ,, n
                                                                                                  /J
                                                                                                  £.
                                                                                                 /J
                                                                                                           ,fl
                                                                                                           tJ
                                                                                                           /J
                                                                                                                    I)

                                                                                                                    ~-
                                                                                                                    CJ
                                                                                                                              17. IJ
                                                                                                                             /_{g
                                                                                                                              /J.()
                                                                                                                                         /)/)

                                                                                                                                          /]/]

                                                                                                                                         ao tJ. tJ
                                                                                                                                                   tJ. iJ
                                                                                                                                                  1/J.J
                                                                                                                                                               tJ
                                                                                                                                                               3
                                                                                                                                                                17
                                                                                                                                                                          tJ
                                                                                                                                                                          1J
                                                                                                                                                                           C1
                                                                                                                                                                                     /J
                                                                                                                                                                                      J 1/j_t;
                                                                                                                                                                                     Cl
                                                                                                                                                                                               IJ. {)


                                                                                                                                                                                               (2.P
                                                                                                                                                                                                           17. {)
                                                                                                                                                                                                           /JI]

                                                                                                                                                                                                           C!IJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      17.(J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     lt.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /J/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                cJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          cJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Cl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CJ c)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /J_/7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ~/'}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /J.17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         C./J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /J. /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /J_/1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /J,,.,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ~/1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
       Total                 5        5                //7 517.{) 5't) CJ ,,,,,                 /2,       s        /5'° W.tJ 20. (J /tJ(J.                      ~         I          7        ~,;_7 1//..J ft)().               I        2,          .$7 ff.f tt.J /tJP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                       166                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
I
I
I                                  re-
                                            J,,,A_,,,U,/

                                                                 Per Cent        Number
                                                                                               FE,'?Pv,1uv
                                                                                                       Pe,Cent
                                                                                                                                   ,


                                                                                                                                               Nu-
                                                                                                                                                        MA,, ,,
                                                                                                                                                                     Percent                 Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,4/',Vt.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Per Cent
         Enluation         Certlin Doubttul Tola! Certain Doubttul Total ~ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total                  ertain Doubtful Tola! Certain Doubttul Total Certain Doubtful Tolal Certain Doubttul Tot~


I   II-Balloon
    1-A.slralllllliCII
    2•Airtrlfl
                              /}
                             LI
                              /)
                                        /)
                                        /
                                       tJ
                                                 s
                                                  0

                                                  0
                                                         (J.0

                                                         ~0.0 /0.0
                                                         ().D
                                                                   ().0


                                                                    ()_0
                                                                              ao
                                                                             50.0
                                                                              ao
                                                                                      /7


                                                                                      I
                                                                                       /
                                                                                               /7
                                                                                              /7
                                                                                              t)
                                                                                                      a
                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                          o.o o.o ao
                                                                                                         zs:o 0.0 es:o
                                                                                                       I Z5.D o.o .zs:o
                                                                                                                                          /}
                                                                                                                                         I')
                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                  /
                                                                                                                                                  /
                                                                                                                                                  /)
                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                            I        ,,,, L.1 L.l
                                                                                                                                                                     /J/J
                                                                                                                                                                    L.?
                                                                                                                                                                            /4.S
                                                                                                                                                                             A/J
                                                                                                                                                                                      1..:1
                                                                                                                                                                                     t..S
                                                                                                                                                                                               /}

                                                                                                                                                                                               7
                                                                                                                                                                                               ?
                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0      lf).t)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .!J.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                        ~- sI Q,Jl f.s dR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ///_j
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ~, n.s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A/J      /J.tl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,'fl.I


                                                                    tJ.0      f/.0                    0       ao       o.o       ().0                      t:J                                                                    /J/1


I
    Hiaht"""1oo.              /7       I)         0      tl.O                         /)      /)                                         /)       /J                /'J/J    ,1_/J   /J. CJ    /        /J

    4-Birds                  I')       CJ         0      ().o      11.0       tJ,O    /)      17      0       0.0      <J.o      0.0     IJ       /)       0        ,1./J   4,1      /)/)      /        /7      I q,f             /J/J    ,/f
    S.Clouds. Dust, etc.     /}        ,1         0      0.0       e;.O       ().0    t)      lj      0       eJ.O     ()_0      (JL)     /}      /)       0        /J/)    /)_/)     t).n     /)       t1      tJ J?./J         -? /)     17. t)
    6-lnsuffic.lnfD.          I        /)         I      /0.0      o.o       /0.0     /7      /]      0       "-0      o.o      (J.0      /7     /)       t:)       (},tJ   tJ. tJ   /J,,          /J   /)      0       IJ./}    /J, (/ /211
                                                                              o.o                     a
I
    7-Psydlolo~cal            0        0          0       OIJ       0.0               0       tJ              IJ.o     0.0      0.()
                                                                                                                                          0      tJ        0  /J.IJ I?. tJ /J_/J               tJ       d       0      17. /J     /J,IJ 17.tJ
    11-Unlcnown               ✓         tJ        '-I ~.o          eJ.O      tf-o.o   L       0       z so.o o.o so.a                    .f       tJ       3 11.(1   /J.tl ~:/                     s-   /J      s 23-i           tJ.o ,!_/.i
    9-0ther                  /)        tJ         0      0.0        o.o       ".O     tJ      /)      0       (!).()   O.()     o.o       I       9       /0 It. ../ §t.l l,H.5                    I    /J      I      i/t'      t?.v //,g

                                                                                                      lf- /00,0 &.o
I
        Total                'l        I         /t} ',0.0 /0,0              /00.     'I-     0                                 /00,     5"     I/        Ii.. J/J ~11 IOI·                    IK       .3' ZI i'~-1 l h /(Ip,




I         Evaluation
    II-Balloon
                           Certain 0Ollbltul Total Certain Doubttul Total Certain Ooubttul Total Certain Doubttul Total ~ertain Doubttul Total Certain Doubttul Total Certain Doubttu
                              I
                                   Number


                                           I
                                                /44,/




                                                  2
                                                          Per Cent


                                                         5-:.!      ,:;_:t    ~L
                                                                                  Number


                                                                                       /      ,1
                                                                                                      Jt,111/E
                                                                                                        Per Cent

                                                                                                          I   -5:'/. /10
                                                                                                                                Nullmer


                                                                                                                                 5:t      d       .5
                                                                                                                                                       .,J✓,,, i/
                                                                                                                                                      PerCent


                                                                                                                                                       9 ,hi 55 ~?
                                                                                                                                                                              Number


                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,1    I I
                                                                                                                                                                                                             -4v,:;v.rr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Total Certain Doubttul Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                               O.fJ i(.5 .?S


I   I-Astronomical
    1-Aircraft
    3-Liaht Pl11nom.
    4-Birds
                             t.
                              ,/
                              /)

                              /J
                                        tl



                                           I
                                            /
                                            I
                                                 < /IJ,,;- JJ.() /0.6
                                                 s 211 ,:;,J 21,f
                                                  I
                                                   I
                                                         /J,,,

                                                         tJ.o
                                                                    5".J 5-1
                                                                    5.J ,;,J
                                                                                      5
                                                                                       I

                                                                                      tl
                                                                                      tl
                                                                                              .?
                                                                                              £,
                                                                                               /?
                                                                                               ,?
                                                                                                      1./- 5./, /1.,1 2?,J
                                                                                                       7 21i JI./ Hf
                                                                                                       ()
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                              ac:J
                                                                                                              /J,JJ
                                                                                                                       (),,:;J O.tJ
                                                                                                                       /J,/}     /ltJ
                                                                                                                                         /.!
                                                                                                                                         IR
                                                                                                                                           ,1
                                                                                                                                          /}
                                                                                                                                                  ..f/6 l1v':t '1.J /'1/,
                                                                                                                                                 /,f .?6 tfi Nf: ?it,
                                                                                                                                                  t? 0 ,1,/} at /J.£)
                                                                                                                                                  /J       C)       ;J./J    ;1,0 ;1,JJ
                                                                                                                                                                                               /}
                                                                                                                                                                                                   L
                                                                                                                                                                                                   I.

                                                                                                                                                                                                   /}
                                                                                                                                                                                                         J IZ

                                                                                                                                                                                                         /
                                                                                                                                                                                                        tl  C)
                                                                                                                                                                                                               /(i.tJ /S.0 .?o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                          ✓ 10 /.5,0 /0.0 ZS.£
                                                                                                                                                                                                             I 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 t).o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             o.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0 o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  aa


I   5-Clouds, Dus~ et~
    6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
    7-Psycholoaical
    &-Unknown
                              /J
                              ¢'
                              tJ
                              ..!
                                        tJ
                                        tJ
                                       I)
                                        /?       3
                                                  ()
                                                  '-I-
                                                  0
                                                         JJ,/)
                                                         ?I. I
                                                         /) /J

                                                         1,;;i
                                                                    /J,/J t'l. {)
                                                                    /) /')

                                                                   /}_/)
                                                                    /I_ /J
                                                                             :21.1
                                                                             ().p
                                                                             />,%
                                                                                      tJ
                                                                                      3
                                                                                      0
                                                                                      ..?
                                                                                               17
                                                                                               t7
                                                                                               I)
                                                                                               /7
                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                      3
                                                                                                       tJ
                                                                                                       j'
                                                                                                              /}v
                                                                                                              IP
                                                                                                              JJ,1,
                                                                                                              IL. 1
                                                                                                                       /)/)

                                                                                                                        /7/)

                                                                                                                       IJ, tJ
                                                                                                                                 /]/)

                                                                                                                                //,,1
                                                                                                                                "/')

                                                                                                                       JJ. /) 16.7
                                                                                                                                          JJ
                                                                                                                                           ;,
                                                                                                                                          ,(/
                                                                                                                                         /~
                                                                                                                                                  /J
                                                                                                                                                  JJ
                                                                                                                                                  _j'
                                                                                                                                                           CJ
                                                                                                                                                           3
                                                                                                                                                            7
                                                                                                                                                                     12{)
                                                                                                                                                                    j'.J
                                                                                                                                                                    ,/.¢ ?.3
                                                                                                                                                                     17 JJ
                                                                                                                                                  tJ /9' .1tl.9 at? 1'J.i 1¢'
                                                                                                                                                                             /2(} 1)./J
                                                                                                                                                                             atJ ?.J
                                                                                                                                                                                               /J
                                                                                                                                                                                               t.
                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                        /)

                                                                                                                                                                                                        tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                        tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0  0.1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       {).() o.o

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                CJ 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                               /i/, 3S:tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t>.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (J_t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  f).O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7-f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           t).()

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3S:O


I   9-0ther


        Total               IS
                              I        ,1         I      51 /J.O 5.J

                                       ti- l'f ,ff q 2/./ I/a;>.
                                                                                      /J


                                                                                      13
                                                                                              /J      0       JJ.tl    /J,tl


                                                                                              .s- IE '12.t. .21.i' I/JO.
                                                                                                                              JJ. /?      /       JJ        I        I. I    ,, /J



                                                                                                                                        <,2 Z9' '11 ,r,r. 2. .?/.i /tl/J. ?'ii! 12
                                                                                                                                                                                     1./       /)       tl      0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                {L/,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     o.o          O.o <J.O

                                                                                                                                                                                                                       res ;n.s /00,


I                                  Number
                                            S'el"r1:.w,:,e,e
                                                          Percent                 Number
                                                                                                    /J,-4,e-,e

                                                                                                        PerCmt                  Nuntier
                                                                                                                                                       ,l/t7f/, ,M~e,e
                                                                                                                                                      Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                        .t:'trt!e'M~,'!',e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Per Cent



I
          Evaluation       Certain 0Ollbltul Total Certain Doubttul Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain 0oobttul Total Certain Ooubttul Tola! Certain Doubttul Total Certain Doubttu                           Total Certain Doubttul Total
    II-Balloon                /)       ~          z    ,:;J.O /J. .J /.1.J            /        /7     /        '7./    /1/1     7:/       /}      ~        {)        a.o     o.o       ().0        /)    t,      z tM /5.E/ 1/5. ✓
    I-Astronomical                I     I         2     I, 7 l,,J /J,j                 L       /       71~9 ?.I ~t)/)                     #        0       z so.t; 0.() ~o.o .1                          t)     .5' !.JI        /J/) ?JI

    2·Aircraft                //'      ..!        7 ..?1, 7 ?/J.O 4L.7                    /    2,      ?      ,f,/ 1;/.? [/,/             ~       17       .2 Sob tJ.O .;11.c                  I        4"       ~       '7.7 .J'p_g J'$.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,.,,,
I   3-Liat,t Phenom.
    4-Birds
    5-Clouds, Dus~ et~
    6-lnsuffic. klfo.
                              i?
                              tl
                              ?.
                                  /)   tJ
                                       tl
                                        I
                                       /J
                                                  0 t!O /J./J /}_/}
                                                  0
                                                   I
                                                       tJ. (} /J.JJ /J/J

                                                 z /-1.1
                                                         tJ.0 1..J
                                                                    (J(}
                                                                               I..}
                                                                             l~J
                                                                                       JJ
                                                                                      JJ
                                                                                      tl
                                                                                       I
                                                                                               /}

                                                                                              /J
                                                                                               I
                                                                                              tl
                                                                                                      cJ tJ.t?
                                                                                                      0 /Jo
                                                                                                      /
                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                         JJ.tl
                                                                                                              If,/
                                                                                                                       tl_/}
                                                                                                                       /J/J
                                                                                                                       1.1
                                                                                                                       JJ. /J
                                                                                                                                Oo
                                                                                                                                /JO
                                                                                                                                ?' I
                                                                                                                                 ~/
                                                                                                                                         ~
                                                                                                                                          /J
                                                                                                                                          JJ

                                                                                                                                          /J
                                                                                                                                                  I?
                                                                                                                                                  17
                                                                                                                                                  tl
                                                                                                                                                  /J
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           C)
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                               o.o a.o p.O
                                                                                                                                                                     0.()

                                                                                                                                                                     o.o
                                                                                                                                                                     0,t)
                                                                                                                                                                              0.0
                                                                                                                                                                             0.0 c).O
                                                                                                                                                                            £).0
                                                                                                                                                                                      O,t>


                                                                                                                                                                                      o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                               /)

                                                                                                                                                                                                   JJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                   JJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                        /7
                                                                                                                                                                                                        /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                        /7
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Cl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                cJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                C)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /Jn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /J/J

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /J.(J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               JJ. /) /J. 1?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  n/'J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 {),t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ~/7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I? /1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /1 /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /? /J


I                                      tl                bf ,?_/J            t.. :I                                                                                                                     tJ       0      /?.c:J tJtJ
    7-Psycholopcal                I                I                                  t)      tJ      0       f1/J     A/J      JJ.0      /J     0         0         ().O     .0.D    (J. eJ       /J                                      tJ.tJ
    11-UnknoMI                /}       t?         tJ      at;       ao ll,.,          /       C)      I       'I.I     17/} 1,/           tJ      ~        0         o.o     0,0 0. 0              £    0       :e 15.¢           /1/J l/£:3/'°
    9-0ther                   tl       tJ         0      at1 /? /1            /1/1    JJ      Cl      0       11.0     t/0 /JtJ           /J      /)       0         0.0     e;, 0 d.O              I   /)       I       17 (J.tl          '11




I       Total                'l         7 I~ 15"H ¢6.7 ,,,,.,_                        /0      I/- ltf l?'/.4" lt.b I/a<>.                </-     0         <£ ltJb.lJ 1),0 100.                    7    6       13 5".19 47.. I /a,




I
I
I
I
I                                                                                                                      167

I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
         Evaluation
0-S,lloon
    1-Ashonomical
2-Aircratt
HigbtPh-.
4-Birds


6--lnsuffir. Info.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
7-PsydDlo&ical
8-Unknown
!l-0111..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
       Tot~

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
I Evaluation
    0-Balloon                   /J
                                      Number
                                                  MLJr,1
                                                         PerC01t                 Number
                                                                                          JOA,:.



                                                                                         /J         /J
                                                                                                       PerCml                  Nuntier
                                                                                                                                        J//t.f/
                                                                                                                                                     Per COit                Number
                           Certain Doubtful Total Certain Ooubtful Total Certain Ooublful Total Certain Doubtful Total ~ertain Doubtful Total Certain Ooubtlul Total Certain Ooubtfu Total Certain Doubtful T~
                                         /J          /J   /J.O       /J.O /J.17                               /J 120 17. t? 0./J                ~       .&             '/ //)/)
                                                                                                                                                                                   Ll,M. ,rr


                                                                                                                                                                                    ,t/.o /L{/1
                                                                                                                                                                                                  PerC..t

                                                                                                                                                                                                      /      //       ,;- 11,I. It'!> /J./
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
    I-Astronomical
    2-Airaaft
    3-Litht Phffltlm.
    4-Birds
                             j
                             2..
                                /J
                                IJ
                                         I
                                        17
                                         0
                                         /}
                                                     .q fJ] Ill 14"1/41
                                                     ? l-1n 0.0 ,,,,,,
                                                     IJ Cl.I', IJ.0 IJ.O
                                                     /J  t?.u '< /} /)_ tJ
                                                                                        t?
                                                                                        ?
                                                                                         ,,J
                                                                                        ,:?
                                                                                                2.

                                                                                                0
                                                                                                 17
                                                                                                    /J       tJ au J?.0 t20
                                                                                                             .;- ff.< n2 1,.,.5
                                                                                                             tJ
                                                                                                             /J
                                                                                                                    110 tJ. /} i /,? I?
                                                                                                                    12/J 0. 0 I /J/1
                                                                                                                                                ~
                                                                                                                                               1✓
                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                       /
                                                                                                                                                        /J
                                                                                                                                                      /2,

                                                                                                                                                       I/
                                                                                                                                                                       z
                                                                                                                                                                 ?/. ?ft)
                                                                                                                                                                            I!/)




                                                                                                                                                                    I /}/} 2.tJ ?.o
                                                                                                                                                                                    /) /}

                                                                                                                                                                            1Q.tJ ,;,?.p

                                                                                                                                                                    I 2.ll JJ./J 4 /}
                                                                                                                                                                                             ,/,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                      j
                                                                                                                                                                                                      /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                     17
                                                                                                                                                                                                       f




                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             .f
                                                                                                                                                                                                             ?

                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      t. '/.? 19 IG.~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,;-



                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          19 ~:1 /.f 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I J?.I? 2.t. .t.t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /JI}      ,1/J    /},?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                             ,..,,..,
    ~Cloud~ Dus~ et~
    6--lnsutfic.tnfo.
    7-Psychological          0
                                /}

                                /J
                                        0
                                         /J
                                         /J
                                                     0
                                                     /J
                                                     0
                                                          11.l'J
                                                           ~/)


                                                           tJ./5
                                                                     /J.6
                                                                     (/./J
                                                                     Ot? nl'J
                                                                             /} /)
                                                                                        /)

                                                                                         I
                                                                                        /J
                                                                                                ,?

                                                                                                0
                                                                                                /J
                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                             /)
                                                                                                                    /)/')

                                                                                                                    ,/. I
                                                                                                                 /20 ao ao /J
                                                                                                                             /J/)
                                                                                                                             /'J.I}
                                                                                                                                       0,/'}

                                                                                                                                       ///
                                                                                                                                                /J
                                                                                                                                                ..!
                                                                                                                                                        /}

                                                                                                                                                       /)
                                                                                                                                                       (?
                                                                                                                                                                   t? /7.tJ IJ.,? IJ.O
                                                                                                                                                                   j
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                            t.o     IJ./J h. /J
                                                                                                                                                                            tl./J O.tJ JJ.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,?
                                                                                                                                                                                                     !,
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                            /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            rJ.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /ti,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,1 ,1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                11./J l.lt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5.5 Otl J;j
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /')/')


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
    8-Unlulown               J          0           ..1 fJ'.J        a o :1f.1          ~        /J          2. 1.2.Z no 12.2. /t:l                    t:l        /£)      2/J.o    tJ.O IM.o /,/            L7      14' %$          &.tJ :1'-8
9-0tfler


'      Tot~                 $
                             /J         /J


                                         I
                                                    /J


                                                     fj
                                                           /) /'I    /)()



                                                          rf<19 //./ /al
                                                                             tJ. t?     /)


                                                                                        6
                                                                                                 /


                                                                                                .J'
                                                                                                             I      /}/?     I/. I

                                                                                                             9 /_f'f J'J.J /!JO
                                                                                                                                       ff.I     /J


                                                                                                                                               .?5
                                                                                                                                                       /}          /)       A,11


                                                                                                                                                      15 5ti 'l/10 J'tJ.tJ lt117.
                                                                                                                                                                                    /J,/J tJ.o /J


                                                                                                                                                                                                    ~i
                                                                                                                                                                                                            /?


                                                                                                                                                                                                            /tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /')   ~/}      av tJ. tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3fl 11.1 2?.J /()().
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                S°,:'.,;> ''&,,_.,,,,e                                    ?It!~,   •,IC,?
                                                                                                                                                                A,,.,,        ·-                                   £7&~ s,._,.4,!i,t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
! Evaluation                       Number                Per Cent                 Number               PerCa,t                 Nuntier               PerC..t                 Number                PerC811


    0-Balloon
    I-Astronomical
                           Certain Ooubl1ul Total Certain Ooubtful Total Certain llomtful Tntal Certain Doubtful Total Certain Ooubtful Total Certain Ooubtful Total Certain Ooubtfu Total Cerlllin Doubtful Tot~
                                tJ
                                2.
                                            I
                                            I
                                                      I tit:l -7.7 '?.7
                                                     J' K.t/ '1:7 2.1.I                 :J7.
                                                                                            /       I}
                                                                                                    /,J
                                                                                                              I    J/J./,


                                                                                                                   .
                                                                                                                             11.17 //1, /)
                                                                                                             1, 21).{l ,,_ /} l~o
                                                                                                                                                /J
                                                                                                                                                /)      ~
                                                                                                                                                            /          I   17./J -?/J./1 .;10,~
                                                                                                                                                                   2. ll.O @,/! U/J t)
                                                                                                                                                                                    ,,      ,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                      2_
                                                                                                                                                                                                             :t,
                                                                                                                                                                                                             .:1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      J' ,<f /,7_!, /!i. f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5,    /tJ.1;, 1.:-i 2/..J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
    2-Aircraft                   ?           I       J 21.I '7.7 .JtJ.f                  ?          0        ?_      ,,,_/   17.,?     4✓1_A
                                                                                                                                                I      ,?          I "''<tl /J.11                     ~       ~       'f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ~-'      //}~     ff,.f
    3-Liat,t PhOIOftl.
    4-Birds
    5-Clouds. Oust. etc.
    6--lnsutfic. ~fo.
                                /,J
                                I/
                                 /J
                                         /J
                                         /
                                         /J
                                         cJ
                                                     /,J 120
                                                      /
                                                     ,?
                                                          /)(7
                                                           f//J
                                                                    /}_ t? I,?, I'.?
                                                                     '1: 7 '/.'1
                                                                    /J.,? /J.O
                                                      I 't 1 /J. t7 71
                                                                                        0
                                                                                        0
                                                                                         /?
                                                                                         tJ      0
                                                                                                    /)



                                                                                                    /)
                                                                                                             /J
                                                                                                             /J
                                                                                                             /?
                                                                                                             I}
                                                                                                                     tJ.O /J./} /J.17
                                                                                                                    IJ.tJ 0. /} /J.17
                                                                                                                    /J,/1

                                                                                                                    IJ.tJ
                                                                                                                              ,,, /J

                                                                                                                             ao. 11. ()
                                                                                                                                       I} tJ
                                                                                                                                                ,:J
                                                                                                                                                /J
                                                                                                                                                I}

                                                                                                                                                 /
                                                                                                                                                       /?
                                                                                                                                                       tJ
                                                                                                                                                       ,?
                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                  /)

                                                                                                                                                                  t:l
                                                                                                                                                                  /)
                                                                                                                                                                            11.0 11.-()
                                                                                                                                                                           /J Jl /? /J 6/4
                                                                                                                                                                           /J,J (J_ tJ /J.,?
                                                                                                                                                                   I PO.o tJ.tJ ?/7.t)
                                                                                                                                                                                             0./J     /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                      /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                     /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                     /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                             t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                             J?
                                                                                                                                                                                                             t:J
                                                                                                                                                                                                             t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ;:J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /}

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      cJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /).,?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            / } /)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /J./,J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            t'J.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /) /)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /)/)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /} /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I}/}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IJ.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /J./J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /1/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              17. tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                 /                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                            ,,_,,
    7-Psycholoejcal
    8-Unknown
9-0tfler                      CJ
                                /}

                                J'      0
                                        0
                                         /)         tJ /J.cJ /J./} n/J
                                                    .? JJ I eJ,tJ 2J. I
                                                     cJ JJ.tJ atJ 0. tJ
                                                                                        /)

                                                                                        5
                                                                                        0
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                6
                                                                                                 tJ          0

                                                                                                            /J
                                                                                                                   tJ.,?     /J tJ
                                                                                                            5' 6'/J.I) /J.0 51).I)
                                                                                                                    tl.Ci    tJ./1
                                                                                                                                       /),.,




                                                                                                                                       o.o
                                                                                                                                                /J
                                                                                                                                                /J
                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                       /)

                                                                                                                                                      t?
                                                                                                                                                      t?
                                                                                                                                                                  /J
                                                                                                                                                                   /}

                                                                                                                                                                  t:l
                                                                                                                                                                      /J.,? JJ.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                            /1 tJ
                                                                                                                                                                            /).()
                                                                                                                                                                                    /) /J   17.IJ
                                                                                                                                                                                    Cl.tl (1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                     /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                     2-.
                                                                                                                                                                                                     2...
                                                                                                                                                                                                             tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      t?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,?.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /}_/}    t?.O /J./J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      :Z, ill.~ 17.0 itJ.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,/J,>    /Jtl     ,,,,     I
        Tot~                 j          ,I         /.f IU2          Jof /OtJ.           JO      /,)         /0 /{J(J.I)       ll.v /tJO.        z     .:J         5 l~t? ,o.tJ /a-J.                /.t      '7      JQ l.f,1,       !U /IJ().
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                            168
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
I
I
I                           1j9,UE


                                         bber
                                                    &t24'
                                                     J,,     '' 4 /tV
                                                          Per Cent
                                                                          EYALVAU/2,11
                                                                         Fl?S'                   - -
                                                                                                 NIDllber
                                                                                                            t2E AU

                                                                                                    ;;'1:4~~,,,,,,
                                                                                                                    /JC
                                                                                                                           S?GltOAIG S:
                                                                                                                            Ve.A~

                                                                                                                      Per Cent                     Number
                                                                                                                                                          EtU' /1LL
                                                                                                                                                           s1,rrv ~A,,t: s1:e,;,, it><
                                                                                                                                                             M,,u
                                                                                                                                                                        </&,rs If</ t2/U/tn<2N ,ZE S/GHT/A/G
                                                                                                                                                                                       -,--,;, ~"'E ..,,,A111r1:s

                                                                                                                                                                                Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                           LJ,;en.
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Number                 Per Cent
            Enlmlion        Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total               ertain Doubtful Tollll Certain Doobtful Tollll    ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total certain Doubtlul Total Certain Doubtful Total


I       II-Balloon
        I-Astronomical
        2-Aircrlft
                               s
                               2
                                   /
                                            t7
                                             I
                                                I     2    '71 7. 7 I/!,,(/
                                                      .J' 2J. I o.O 2.l. I
                                                      .J' /5.# 11 ''· J
                                                                                          /
                                                                                         t1
                                                                                         .2.
                                                                                                       tl
                                                                                                       ~
                                                                                                       t)
                                                                                                              ~
                                                                                                                 I 1/.L
                                                                                                                     f. ~ t.J
                                                                                                                   0.0
                                                                                                                           tJ.o 4..t

                                                                                                             ? )'.3 ().0 fi'..J
                                                                                                                                            .I'.
                                                                                                                                            /)

                                                                                                                                            ,f
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                     £
                                                                                                                                                      t1         £
                                                                                                                                                                /1
                                                                                                                                                                ,/l
                                                                                                                                                                       II.I d.d II. I
                                                                                                                                                                       d."        CUJ
                                                                                                                                                                      l.v# //./ =,5
                                                                                                                                                                                           ,:J.t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,?
                                                                                                                                                                                                      /
                                                                                                                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                                                                                                                               /.l
                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                               2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2 !f.f tJ.O 51
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      !2.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      //)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ~9 29 5.f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               t,.9 zf.u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            11.5
                                                                                                                                  ,,_,,                                0.{)        o.o tJ.o                                 o.c; o.cJ
I                                                                                                                                                                                                     IY
    3-lifll Ptienom.                       0                 tJ.0       d. 0 O.t                       t)    /7 0.0 0.0                     ,t)                 t7                                             £)
    4•Birds
                               /.l
                               .?           /7
                                                      /)
                                                      /)     tJ.0       CU) t).t
                                                                                          0
                                                                                          /.l       a         4 d.O o.o ().,                C1
                                                                                                                                                     L)

                                                                                                                                                     ()          /)   o.o         O.tJ o.o             /       a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I    £.9 d.0 £.Y        "·"
    Hlouds,Dus~ el~            tl          0          0      0.0        0.0 t).O          t!l          0     C1 (J.O o.o t).o               tJ            I     I     0.0         S:I,, 5,,          0         t7     /)    o.o O.t:> O.tJ
        6-lnsuffic. ~fo.           I       0           I 11 o.D 1.7                      IL            t)   /fl. $'().I} (),t) 5'()./l      /7        /)        /)    0.0
                                                                                                                                                                      ao
                                                                                                                                                                                  "·" ,u              t,       /)     5' /t/.7 tJ,0 J//.7


I                                                     0 0.0 /),0 I).{)                                       0 0.() fl.O tJ,0                                                                                         I 2.9 d,O :1.9
        7-Psydlological        t:?         ,'7                                            t)           0                                    L)        {')       0                 t::J.O   I?."       I        t?
    I-Unknown                  .S'         /)         ..l 211 t,.O 21 I                   .v           L7    4' lf..7 0.0 //,1              2         (J        :t.   II.   I     O,i)     II I     1.2         ,:;; /£. l.;,,;;.1 t). t) 12'..j'
    s.0111..                   I           t7          I 17 t).c) 1.7                    .1         0         g 12.51 tJ.O l.t.5            /)        .5'       '3    0,0 If.. 7           /t..1       /       /.l    I .!. 9 o.o .2-9

                                                                                        z.z            z 2, (/ 9!.'71 ff..! la?.                                                                              s J';/ 9/.t. ff.i
I                                                    l.s lfo:'t. 15".I/' Jal                                                                                   IR /,,(,,7 Jj.j' /(JO.
           Total             II            2,                                                                                             /P.        {,                                             3/                                        /(JO.




I            Evaluation
        II-Balloon
                                    Number
                                            ;o?.4,1
                                                          Per Cent                Number
                                                                                             loNE
                                                                                                        Per Cent
                            Certain Doobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                   f        :Z        JI     1'1! s. ✓ 29.7               ,I,           I     '7 If.! ?. 2, 12.5 £.2,
                                                                                                                                                   Nulll>er
                                                                                                                                                               Jv,:<./
                                                                                                                                                                       Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                LJ,,,u,,r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PerC811
                                                                                                                                          ertain Doobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtfu Total Certain Dcllbtful Total
                                                                                                                                                    14 ,7/,, /.!.!i ~I, t.t.J                        /(J     1.2'    ,2'2. I.!.~ Jf..2.- 19.7
                                                       z d.0 ,;:J/
I
        1-Astronomical         tJ           '2.                                ,;:;.1     /            z,    ..! t7 ~5 f/.1          I               .J' .p /JI. J.$ /J ,I                            I        I       2. ;.d /. // f.i
        2-Aircrafl             I/          6         /(J     /tJ.8 IL.2. 21&              5'           ✓      9 ,,. I J.2. 9 ?f.tl .ft)             1£ qi,, If.I/ ft t.'i.1.                        /2,        ~      /L    11..2 SJ/ t/1,,
        3-Liaflt Ptunom.       17          (/         cJ O.o 0.0 ao                       /J           t1    ,?
                                                                                                                 "·o o.a o.o                 ~       /   7 ..11 t1., 43                              /J       J'       .t   t}.O      I/I d.l
        4-Birds                    t7       p         CJ d. 0 o.o t).0                   v             0     ,?  tJ,O o.o o.o                /)      ,7          (?      ao ao
                                                                                                                                                                       0,0                            /.l      cJ      /J    0.0      o.d       0.0
                                            ,,,       /; ().0 o.o o.O                                        ,,, d.0 o.o o.o                                                                                          ,,,
I                                                                                                                                                                I ,?.I, d.o /J.{,                                          o.o o.o 0,0
        S-Cloud~ Dus~ elL          /,,                                                   (J            /J                                    /       0                                                /J      ,J
        6-lnsuffic.tnfo.       ;/          cJ         41 1/tJ.f tJ,0 /{).i               t1            /)    ,?    a.o o.o tJ,O /if                   /J       1✓      g/.        tJ.o      11.t     ..!       /.l    s 41 o.o di
        7-Psychololical        ,?          p          t7 o.o o.o t).0                    0          I)       tJ   tl.O o.o 0.0 .2                    ..?        !, ;.Z J.f tn ~                                /      ..I   9,1       u/ ill
    8-Unknown                  1           Cl         1 !l.9 0.0 1£ 9                    R          t?       !1 15-$ o.o ~-i 1/L                     0         ✓t tf.t. o.o 11ft. £.f                         17     2.1 J'/.1        o.o JI./
                                                                        o.u n                                                    ..,.,
I   9-0lller


    I      Total
                              .J'

                             21
                                           (J


                                          /tJ
                                                      s    f( I

                                                    ..!7 1'1.to 21/J /(J(),
                                                                                         4

                                                                                        1✓
                                                                                                   '
                                                                                                    0


                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                             1,1 112.9 o.o /J.9                       /)



                                                                                                            ?I IM.1/ n., la?· IZ/,, f7 //. s 11'1.J 12.1 /()p.
                                                                                                                                                                d ?.4' o.o ?.I/ £.

                                                                                                                                                                                                    !i's ft I
                                                                                                                                                                                                               t1      2.   2.1       d.O 2.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1 Q 11-il 1~# lt?r?



I                                               $";<",PrE,udcd                             ;?,._71 •A&I                                 /llt'U-" AAA,:,e                             LJet!EMAEL
    I Evaluation                         Number                     Percent        Number                 Per Cm!                 Nulll>er              Per Cent               Number               PerC811



I                                                                                                                                                                                                     ..,
                            Certain OOtJbtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tollll Certain Doubtrul Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certan Ooubtfu Total certain Doobtful Total
        0-Balloon              .f           I.            9 I,.!; I.!. I)     /f.t;'      ~            b     1 1.,1 ?I),{) 11,,1            -!?.          /)     ~ tl.J 0-0                /j'..J               /      t £1-1 ✓..1 -?L,{J
        I-Astronomical
        2-Aircraft
                                   I
                                   ?,      /6
                                             /         ~
                                                      If
                                                             2.2.       2.z
                                                             t/.J ?tl.i .19.I
                                                                               ,/;.1
                                                                                           ., !>
                                                                                          17           ft    £ o.o 1,.1 1..7
                                                                                                             K IP. tJ /f.,;f 2',.1          /J
                                                                                                                                              /       /
                                                                                                                                                      /J
                                                                                                                                                                 ~     £.1
                                                                                                                                                                t1 O.lJ o.o 0,(1
                                                                                                                                                                                   1,,./ 11,,I        ~-
                                                                                                                                                                                                       /
                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                               5,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      f.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            f.1 //,.J IJ.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,j.J .2/. 7 1L,tJ
                                                             o.o o.o 0()
I                                                                                                                          "·" 0.0                              I ~-1 t).O t...l
        3-LighlPh""".              t7       0         t1                                  /J           17    /J    (I./)          0,0        /        /J                                              /.l      /)     0     0.0 .tJ,0 O.Cl
        4-Birds                    /J      (J         /J     o.o
                                                              O.t!J 111.0                  A           /)    /J    ao o.o                   ,,,       /J        t) J.CJ ao o.o                       /.l       /J      /J   o.o CJ.O o.o
    ~s.Oust.elc.               ,'J          t)        LJ tJ.& 0.0 (). ()                  /J           /J    p t).0        o.o o.c          /)            I.     I, d.D @.LJ ,(ltJ./)                /.l       /J      /J   ().0     o.o (J.O
        6-Jnsuffit.lnfo.           I       £J         /  1.2 d.d 1.2                       ?..         t7    ?, £..1       o.o f.. 7        LJ            ,?    (J    ao t),C)              ().~      .2.      0      2     i'.1      fd.O      1'.1
                                                                                                                           d,O o.o

I       7-Psydlological
        8-Unkno'"'
    9-0ther
                               t7
                              /J
                               /J
                                           t7
                                            t1
                                           (J
                                                      t7 0.0 0.0 o.o
                                                      IL
                                                      /)
                                                            .ff.% O.(J
                                                            l'J.0 /).0
                                                                              ft/.8
                                                                              "'-"
                                                                                          t7
                                                                                          q
                                                                                          /
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                       t)
                                                                                                       /J
                                                                                                             tJ "·"
                                                                                                             9 J'l).t) (). 0 JtJ-0
                                                                                                             I     j.J     (J.0   J..J
                                                                                                                                            /J
                                                                                                                                            ✓
                                                                                                                                            p         /.l
                                                                                                                                                          /J
                                                                                                                                                          /J
                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                ./ ?!..J ().0 21..7
                                                                                                                                                                /J
                                                                                                                                                                      o.o t),0
                                                                                                                                                                      o.o ().0 O.Q
                                                                                                                                                                                            0-~       /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                      /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                               t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                               /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                               /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6 11..I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      o.o o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      o.o ~-I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,,, ao lJ. () 0.0
                                                                                                                                           x
I          Toll!            2 .J 2.J                 t/~ 5{).{J d>.tJ /pt}.             17         1.1 .!tJ !i/,.1 ✓u Im•.                           1         IG' l,:;tJ 4l:t IM.                   II.       '?    2.J J.f.6 ft).,/' /tV,




I
I
I
I
I                                                                                                                          169

I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
     Evlluation
0-Balloon
1-Astronomic.al
2-Aircraft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
3-LiptPhenom.
4-Birds


6-lnsuffit.lnfo.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
7-Psydlolo~cal
&-Unknown
!1-0l!IOf




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
    Total




                                                                                                     Jt,,.t,
      Evaluation
0-B~loon
                               Number


                                 £,
                                          11,u,
                                                     Per Cent


                                            II 2/..6 -S:9 .12~
                                                                             Number


                                                                                   /,J           ?
                                                                                                   PerCml                  Hunter                Per Cent
                       Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total ~ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu Total Certain Doubtful Total
                          f                                                                           It J'tJ.2        1tJ :Jt:l 2,/,I          /v
                                                                                                                                                          Jt/L /




                                                                                                                                                   .11 19.t. 11.6 .JI.I
                                                                                                                                                                         Number               Per Cent


                                                                                                                                                                                             /'/ /.J'
                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,;:J,/Gtl✓ ,r




                                                                                                                                                                                                              """ 11.f  Flt! .:??.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                            ~ %.U ~9 11.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
I-Astronomical           .J'     /                                                 ~        L7         Z     ✓.1      /J, tJ   1/.1       ~     ✓   // !i.1 1~ 9.c                            x' 2,           //] ff.(, ?.'2 /Ci
2·Aircraft                s      2..        111.-'.J ,,-,9 ?11.t                    ~        ;,        ~     11,   'f I? /~(,            /L      % 2d /.l.l /,I. lf,1                         t       /7     2J' 1..4 1'-.f N.1
3·Light Phenom.           .?     tJ             ?   Ii       0.0      u             /       L7         I     fl..? /JJJ j.3              J'      ~   5" ?.5 1, t/./                           u       t?       ,/ d.1 /{ /') ,/,,!
4-Birds                   17.    /)
                                            0       tJ.O    tJ. 0 17.0             17.      0          /')   tJ.O /J, (} 11. /)           17.   ,·O         /J     0./)    /J/. /')_ /)       ,?      t?      IJ /7,I) 12,? /JO
S-Clouds. Oust. etc.
6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
7-Psycholo1ital
                          /
                         .?
                          L7
                                 /7
                                  n
                                 t?
                                            I
                                            3
                                            0
                                                     ?9
                                                    :U
                                                    17./J
                                                            /J.n ?.9
                                                            tJ. C)
                                                            120 n o
                                                                     ff
                                                                                   /J
                                                                                   .J'
                                                                                    ,;I
                                                                                            /1
                                                                                            tJ
                                                                                            /)
                                                                                                      0      tJ.0 tl, t? tl.tJ
                                                                                                      J' 1.IJ /J,(J ,, ,J /t
                                                                                                      4 9.3 /1/J f..J ·/
                                                                                                       f fLJ. 9 tJ. (? 2tJf .2'.t
                                                                                                                                         ,,;     /)

                                                                                                                                                Cl
                                                                                                                                                17.
                                                                                                                                                            /)

                                                                                                                                                           //,.
                                                                                                                                                            /
                                                                                                                                                                   4,7    ,? ,, /J.O

                                                                                                                                                                   /l.l at? 1.1.I
                                                                                                                                                                   /J t /10 v.it
                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                              ~
                                                                                                                                                                                             .2.
                                                                                                                                                                                                       /
                                                                                                                                                                                                      L7
                                                                                                                                                                                                      /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                               I 17/J I./ I./
                                                                                                                                                                                                            t.1/ /J/J 1,,,,/
                                                                                                                                                                                                               I,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                          t 12 0.CJ 2.2,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
&-Unknown                ,t,     0          t. 59           C!t? 5.f               9       0
                                                                                                                      ~,,
                                                                                                                                                 L7 ?? lf:/J tJ./J 1$.tl                    /.2.
                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                      L7 12 If. 9 tJ.IJ 11. 9
9-0ther


    Total              flt
                          I      £.

                                 '1
                                            '< 2. ~ 59

                                          ..1✓ 'If. ✓ ~~
                                                                     (


                                                                     M/J.
                                                                           fl      n


                                                                                  ..l?
                                                                                            /J


                                                                                            ~
                                                                                                      t? t!IJ          /l/1


                                                                                                     //.J NI I.VI /(JIJ.
                                                                                                                               fl                /         .s 3.:1 (J.$ ;/I 4
                                                                                                                                        93 :l.~ !/2 '7 1'1t . .1 ll.1 /ti:?,
                                                                                                                                                                                                       /     ,Jg I,/ 5.1/

                                                                                                                                                                                            1,9 .5'4 9 _; l!.M .;t.L                  ✓A/J,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                               Numbef
                                      S-c/?reM~li',e
                                                     Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                     /?A-~"~
                                                                                                   Per Cent                Nuntier               Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                         A/"'PtffM#&-1
                                                                                                                                                                         Number               PerCmt
                                                                                                                                                                                                             .t:1cel!?AAd,;,('
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
      Evaluation       Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu Total Certain Doubtful Total
~Balloon                 .J'      :2,       s- I/J.11 t.1 II.. 7 z                             ~       i       9./ 1ft .Jt,J              ~          ,,       9 L.J 119 n.2                   £,       /       j        8.0     ¥,ll IZC.
 I-Astronomical           17.     2,        Z I/JO          L.7          I .. ?     I        2,        :J 1/.5      9.1 15./,            .J'     J           t pg 94 lfi                     ,,        /        /,,    Z4,tJ    'I,(? Z'41
2-Aircraft                 I      ~         9 .?...5' ?1..1 :?n,(J                     /     :2,       .? ,I;;         9/      ;3.t.     ,?      J?         y /JtJ        2S.iJ 25.C          /        ,{!     .J'      'l,o    F.O /2,C.
                                                                                            z                                                                                                                                          C/,o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
3-LichtPht:mm.             I          I      ?. ~3 .J'..1 LI.                       /                  .J' 1/.5        ?.I     /,1.(,     /          /      t      J'./    1/ 1..1.           /       /)        I               0.0
4-Birds                   ,?         /}     t? /)/} 12 /J /J t?                    /J           /      /     /JIJ     4.5      J/.,;     /}     . /)        tJ     /J/)       tJ.u
                                                                                                                                                                          ,1. /)             t7        t:P     /J       *" o.o t).O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        {).0

5-Clouds, Oust. etc.      tJ      /J        (?      /} (J   /J()     ,,,.,,        /)           (l     0     ,J 0     /1 n 1 ✓1. ,.,      /J     .,,,       (?     /)/}   /J. /J 11 L7        /J       L7       /)      p,IJ    0.0    a.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                o.o ',t.0
6-lnsuffic. Info.        .f      0          .f 1/J.tJ       /)/}     IIJ,C)         /          0       I     d,       /J,t')   1/.5      /       ,?         I f. I        /J.tJ J. I          2        (l      2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        "·" 0.0 'fO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
7•Psyclloto~cal          (l       CJ        t)      t?,/J   /) /)    n O           ,?           /)     n     ,, I'.   ,? /) n/J          L7      ,?         0      /111   /1 /'.   /J,::J         /   /)           I    'l,t)

8-UnknoMI                 7       (l        '/ 2JJ CW '7(3                         .3          ,, .? /~(,               /?.(,
                                                                                                                      11.11              ~       /J         /,,    d.1 ~,, 111                i'       /)      i       3:C.0 o.o 3~-"
9-0ther                    /      /         z .J.3 .f..1 t..l,                     L7        t?        0     /JtJ IJ.IJ 11. I}           L7      t:?        0      /)IJ   t2 tJ t2tJ          /       LJ           I    'l:o 0.0 'f.O

    Tot~                /6      //I .?O 5J'.J 41..1 I/PP.                          9       /..?      t2 W,:?.9 5f.l ltia                /3      ;9 5'2 41#.t 5?. ¢' /(}(l.                  21        ~ 2'~ :J½o ;~.o /00.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                170
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
I
I
                                                                            Ell/lt.l/A-r«;,,11                 t:JF ALL                 S/GIIVM~.:;~~-~t5~"t2~~~d~L-L~~ff.="-=;e='5~#~¥~(1,~~=!l'l=:£~Ti=;,,-,e=w~~??.=~~s;=2,="~tt~r~✓
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -=W=~

I                                       ,.,_     JJ'A,         ,a,Rl/
                                                                            FtAe


                                                                        Per Cent
                               Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                          MPA/T,1/5"

                                                                                                      Number
                                                                                                                   h-.
                                                                                                                             OF
                                                                                                                                         ,
                                                                                                                                          /1'£,AIB

                                                                                                                                       Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                    tJP'E,e

                                                                                                                                                                     Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                   Nu-
                                                                                                                                                                                  7M'/.eTv
                                                                                                                                                                                  U,;,et'/1
                                                                                                                                                                                                  M/A/t/T"G.S


                                                                                                                                                                                             Number                Per Cent
                                                                                          ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total ::ertan Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain D"'bllul Total Certain Doubtful Toi~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,:J,;,,t',/

             Enlaation


I   JI.Balloon
        l•Astrol'IOlllical
    2-Aircraft
                                  I
                                  I
                                  /J
                                             0
                                             I
                                             /)
                                                      I ltJ,0 0.0 /0.0
                                                      <. I(),/) /<>.O 2<,.C
                                                      t)       P.0         D.0     0.0
                                                                                            I
                                                                                            /
                                                                                            /J
                                                                                                           /J

                                                                                                           ,,,
                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                         I So-0
                                                                                                                      I IS<>O o.o _,;o.o
                                                                                                                      0 o.o o.o ao
                                                                                                                                          P.O SP,O        1'
                                                                                                                                                          /
                                                                                                                                                          ;?
                                                                                                                                                                        /J
                                                                                                                                                                        t7
                                                                                                                                                                        /J
                                                                                                                                                                                   7 3'il.'l
                                                                                                                                                                                   (}
                                                                                                                                                                                      I    .S:(,
                                                                                                                                                                                                   tJ.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ao S.lo
                                                                                                                                                                                           o.o 0.0 P.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                          ~9        f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ;2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  If.? ().0 Ill, 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 112.5 o.o /2.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 o.tJ 11.5 12,5
    3-Liahl Phtoom.                                   0         l?.O      0-0 AO                           tJ        0        ().0        0,0     0,0                             0        0.0     o.o i?.0         0                     tJ     tl.0 d.O          ().O


I
                                 /1          /)                                             /J                                                            tJ            0                                                    0
    4-Birds                       tJ         0        0        ().fJ       d.O 0.0          /J          ;?           0        0.0         o.o     (),D    tJ            /1         0       0,0     0.0 ,::,_o       CJ        /)          0      ao o.o t}.0
                                                                                   ao                                                             o.o                                                     o.o
    S-Clouds, Dus~ et~
    6-lnsuffi~ ~-..
                                  ,:l
                                  t7
                                             /)

                                             /J
                                                      0
                                                      t!)
                                                                0.0
                                                                o.o o.o o.o
                                                                           ao              ;?
                                                                                           ;?
                                                                                                        ,,,
                                                                                                        0            0
                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                              tJ.O
                                                                                                                              00
                                                                                                                                         t!).0
                                                                                                                                          0.0     o.o
                                                                                                                                                           t7
                                                                                                                                                          ,?
                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                    /'}
                                                                                                                                                                                  " ao
                                                                                                                                                                                  0        P.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                   (7,0 (7,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    t7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I')

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0       ().()    (J.t} 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          St 2_,:;,IJ r:i.o ~5,()
                                                                                                                                                                                            ao 0.0 o.c

    ·-
                                                      0         ao         60 0.0                                    0         (7.C,              P,0                             0                                                       CJ     o.o o.o tl.O
I
        7-Psydmlo~CII            0           /1                                             /J           /J                              t!).0             /)       /)                                              0         c?
                                  z                   ~        zo.0       o.o zo.o                      0            0        o.o         o,0 o.o IP                 0            ID      .rr., O.tJ rr.,           ~        0            s      g;.Jf 0.0 5/.S
    9-0tlle<                      5"
                                             /J
                                             /1       ...      5tU> 4.0 $0.0
                                                                                            /J
                                                                                            0           /J           0        d.0        ().C)    ao       0        /)            /)       d.O     o.o (J.0         ,,,      0            0      o.o o.o t?.O

                                                     IO 9'0.0 IP.O ;M,                                                                   o,o /d0, /~                              /Ir Id/).~ o.o /IJO, I~                               N, ff'/., /2.!5' '/l)t)_
I                                '1      I
            T~                                                                             ~           0             "2... /l)IJ-"                                  0                                                        2.




                                                                                                                    /,,                                                            /,,,._ £/
I
                                                     M,u/                                                                    •,:                                                                                                      ,:J,,✓-    ,T
    I Evaluation                        Number               Percent                 Number                Per Cent
                               Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                   Number             Per Cent                Number               Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                         ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doublfu Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                          o.o tUl                                        'I 1ft              u ne; N'                             ii?/ ;,jg
        0-Balloon                  I}        /,)      0        /J.0
                                                               o.o II. I II. I              ~
                                                                                                I/          £,
                                                                                                                     s                    0.0 ~-i /.2,.                 ,,'7'               'I: I 2/JI
                                                                                                                                                                                  17 11.t.2 5-/ 1'1.J               ¥
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,{,     3' 9 JI./ 5:/, It.,'/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7' IS 1dfl 12. 9 .,,, 7

I
        1-Asbunollical            I?         I        I                                                     /J                -?/J_f
        2-Airaaft                 /J         /}       0        o.o l!J.() o.o               ?               /J       -z... 'U             o.o H     h                   11        l'f- ~./ f'7 1,/_$                J'       .J' C. 5".1, ,;-_t, I/. 2,
        3-Li;,tl'II.....          /J         /'J      0        tJ.0 o.o            0-0      17             IJ        0        0.0         a.o 0.0              I        /'J         I /.tJ /).(') ltJ                /}       I  I {J.O JI/        I. 9
                                                      0        0-0                 o.o      n                            0     (I.()      o.o t>.O         /}                      0 o.o ().() 0.0                                                                 0.0
        4-Binls                   /J         /J                           0-0                              11
                                                                                                                     0                    o.o 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                        /)

                                                                                                                                                                                                   o.o 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    tJ        0           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,,,    ().()   (I.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          o.o o.o
I
        S-Clouds, Dus~ et~        ,I;        /'}      I,       1,/,.7 C).0 Ll,1             /'J           0                   (U)                          /}           /}         0       0.0                       /}       /)                  (1.c!
        6-lrtSUffic.lnfo.         /J         /)        0       tJ.0       /).0     0.0      /)           J?          0       /1.0         o.o o.o          f            /J         fl     ff.2_    o.o    ff,       2.           /J       z      .!.1     o.o .J'.1
        7-Psydlologial            tJ         /,)      0        (J.0       O.C)     O.o      0            /?          0        0.(')      o.o ().0
                                                                                                                                             I                          I          z
                                                                                                                                                                              /,0 /,() 'l.tJ                        2.        0           2      5-1 0.0 -r. 7
        &-Unknown                 tJ         tJ       0        0.1:J o.o o.o                ,,.          /)              7 '29.2. o.o 1f.Z J'/                        /J sf !!I.I, o. o .JI/,                      /,,        0          IS 2tf           O.e'.)   nr

I   I
        9-0ther


            Total
                                  I

                                  7       2
                                                 I    2        I/. I I/. I ?1-2

                                                      7 11 f ~-t, ,t:l)_                  Z.2..
                                                                                                I        /)



                                                                                                         2.
                                                                                                                     I        4',t, o.O 4.2

                                                                                                                    2.'I- lfl.1          fr..1 110a
                                                                                                                                                          d

                                                                                                                                                         'T7
                                                                                                                                                                     n

                                                                                                                                                                   2./
                                                                                                                                                                          SL 14' / 0.0 ti. I

                                                                                                                                                                                  ?8 7LI, .21.<I /C/?.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /)



                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ."?(;,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             If<
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4- o.o          ,v/ 1. ,/

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5tf lt,t.-, ..?.J'.J //JP.


I                                       Number
                                                 S'Et?r~- £e-e
                                                             Per Cent                Number                Per Cent
                                                                                                                    /)
                                                                                                                               A-A



                                                                                                                                   Nudler                Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                              ,
                                                                                                                                                                                 Number               PerC«lt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /Jr,1e,     ,A~4



                               Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu Total Certain Doubtful Total

I
              Evaluation
        JI.Balloon                 /)        2..      z o.o L? L.J                              '7'            7 /()          11..~ 15-i !i:li.            /J             I        I      (),0     d2.. 14.'t        ~        t7           CJ ciO /J,O             ('),O
        I-Astronomical            J           I       ~         Y. '1       /2.5
                                                                           ;>_/                 /           /}    /           53 a.o !,. 3                .J'           :Z.       s 12., ½'.3 1P.$                      I         /           2. II. I     12.2.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          II. J
        ?•Aircraft                 :z        .t,I         /,   t, .! /Y.e; ,,;-_[           /}                 I     I         (!)_{)    5 . .J §..7       I            5"         C.      ,12, M.f 2!itJ           /)        I?          0       o.o at:1 CJ. G
                                                               t:/.CJ .f. I .ti                                                                   ao                                               ao                                             19.0 o.o O.G

I
        3-Light Phenom.            /?        /         I                                    ,?              ;?       C)        "-0 ~-0                     /7           /'J           0    0.0            t:I.O         I?    /)          0
        4-Birds                    I         /J       I        J'. I       0.lf}   g_ I     .2,                /J      2. /0.5 OLJ ;P.s                    /7           ,?         t)      (JO(J.(J o.o             ,?       0            t!)    o.o tJ.t:J 0-0
        5-Clouds. Oust. etc.      0          L)       /')       /).()0-0 o.o                ,?              /7       0    d-0 0-0 /).0                     /J            I         I       ao 1/.2 eft,             ;?       Cl           0      ao C). I!) o.o
        6-lnsuffic.Jnfo.           -?        /1       2         t,.3 d,0 ;,..!              0               /J       0    tJ.O o.o o.o                     -?           /?         2       n t).o ff..J              /)      /'J         0       ao 0.0 ao
                                                                                                                          0.0 o.t> o.o

I
        7-Psydloloeical            /         /J        I     11 3. I       t:/.0            ,?             CJ        0                                         /        /J         I       //.2, tl-0     ,/.2,     :<        /}           2     22.2. C).O 22.2,
        &-Unkno•                 /<,/        CJ N ldn t:U) 1/.f.7                           t/             tJ        ~       21./ ao 21.I                  7            /J          7 2~$ (J,t} 2f.2                4/        &           I./ t/tl.tl o.o 1/1/.I/
        9-0ther                    I         I?  I J' I O.() .1. I                          /)             /         I       ao 5,$ 1,.i                   /            /J         I ,/.2, (J.0 ,/i                     /     t?          I      1/. I    tJ.0 II.I

                               ,etL                                                                     _.c, /Cr '15.'J f/,.3 /(1(),

I
            Total                         x' 32 1,-0 25-P 1tl(/-                           Jtl-                                                          ;_,.-          'l 2'1- ,1,,f,5 g:J5 Ith.                   8'        I            9 f?H JI.I              //1/)




I
I
I
I
I                                                                                                                                   171


I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
     Evaluation
0-Ballaoo
1-AslRmOmical
2-Aircraft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
Hight Phenom.



6-lnsaffi~ ~lo.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
7-Psyd,Jlo&ical
8--




    Total

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
I Evaluation                   Number
                                           14,u/
                                                            Pl!fCent                  Number
                                                                                                    /,,_ 'E
                                                                                                                      PerCmt                   Nunter
                                                                                                                                                 Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                          J,,,t./
                                                                                                                                                                        Nullber               Per Celt
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,:;1,,,, , f

                       Certain Ooobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certin [loubtfu Total Certain Doubtful Total
                          4                   ~ 1/J t?. n R.o                                        7 /2.5 tJ.tJ IM 29                                  ¢0                                                      ✓.S .2.K 9./,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
0-Balloon                         Cl                                             ~          ,?                                                   //             I/JI .//! 15-7             5      41      "l
                                                                                                        17.'> ,,. t/ 17. 9 29
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
I-Astronomical            ,1      2-         IS' 72.tJ QIJ 1iO                   ,f     j          /(J                                          //1       39 //.ii      .3, 9    /5:!      9     J<     /7       (/, ,f,? //, 'f
2-Airmlt                  ?       ¢           7 I../} 11./J /;/CJ                d        I          S" 1. I /.f i 9 ??                         /9 SI 11.t.,; -f.Q /9. 9 /I                     /.f    z~ //)./, 12.5 tJ'.I
3-Lightf'll......         /}          /       I /1_/1 f?./J ~o                   IJ      t.?        n ,u, /}./) /I                 (J     f      /}   3 J.2, /J.0 /. 1,   2                      IJ        z     1-9        /Jn      ,.9
4-Birds                   IJ       /          I t7. (} t.(} ttl                  /7      /J         ,()    /1,IJ        /J. /)   o.o      .z       I 3 n.i 17.../ 1.Z     t.?                    /J       ,::i /J.IJ       n,n 0. /1
5-Clouds, Dus~ et~
6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
7-PsycoologicaJ
                          Cl
                          4
                          0
                                  0
                                  0
                                 L)
                                             t.? tJ.tJ t).(J tJ.t) (l
                                              t;;; 12.tJ 17.0 11~.0 /../
                                              0     ao 11/J nn :l
                                  ,,., /7 J'/.1.(J n/J ?,fo
                                                                                        L)

                                                                                        L)

                                                                                        (J
                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                   13 H.2
                                                                                                    z
                                                                                        .,, 17 .JtJ.1
                                                                                                          {J.tJ {). t) /1{)

                                                                                                           :u,
                                                                                                                        /J.O 11.1.
                                                                                                                        IJ./1    7/     /
                                                                                                                                          !
                                                                                                                                         (//
                                                                                                                                                 /J
                                                                                                                                                  /7
                                                                                                                                                 :l
                                                                                                                                                            3    /.2,
                                                                                                                                                          'fl :It. I
                                                                                                                                                                        /J.(J
                                                                                                                                                                        I)_/)

                                                                                                                                                            3 17.tl IJ.i /.2,
                                                                                                                                                                                 IJ.2
                                                                                                                                                                                 ti../
                                                                                                                                                                                           /?

                                                                                                                                                                                          /9
                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                 /)

                                                                                                                                                                                                 IJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                 IJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                        /9"
                                                                                                                                                                                                          /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                IJ.11
                                                                                                                                                                                                               /fl :I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 17.0 /.(J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1,/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IJ.IJ   /J,/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           tJ.o If!. :I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   n,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
8-Unkno•                l'f                                                     /Y                                      tJ.tJ ://l.J' 4"%        L)      <,C-8 1K.6 (). tJ lf.i           :tf    c?     29' 27.9 /7. (?
!I-Olller


    Totll              a1
                          t7      /

                                 9 so
                                              I    /J.tJ     :t. tJ 2.0

                                                   g'j_l, /f{.0 /PO.
                                                                                 2-

                                                                               s-z      ~
                                                                                         IJ          iZ :t. I.

                                                                                                  S-6 92.9 ,t,/ /tl'J.
                                                                                                                        tJ.O ~L 2/,/'

                                                                                                                                         212
                                                                                                                                                 IJ       ;z'I- 9.~

                                                                                                                                               'f3 2Sf ~(/ l~.9 I/JP,
                                                                                                                                                                        /) /)     q_q      2-    /       3 I. 9 /. 17 ?.9

                                                                                                                                                                                          78 z~ /0'1- 75-1', 26.fl /tlO•
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                          SE,-,,r,1:M 4',<c£
                                                                                      _,
                                                                                                 C},:!.r, -'-""-'
                                                                                                                      Per Cent                 Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                        JI/&.✓,:; ,u ,,&.,
                                                                                                                                                                       Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                  /./$I! GM#c"..t'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PerCmt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                               Number                       Percent                                                                            NuntJer
      Evaluation
0-Balloon
l•Astrono111ical
                       Cerliin Ooobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certin Dwblful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain lloubtfu
                          /]

                         //)
                                   0
                                      'f
                                              0
                                             /.?
                                                 /J.~ /1 ,,._ ,.,_{)
                                                2.1.2 7.0 :JtltJ
                                                                                 .?
                                                                                J'
                                                                                        .t/
                                                                                            -?
                                                                                                     7 ~-5
                                                                                                    /(J
                                                                                                                         Y,7 15.t
                                                                                                           ,:,_,:; /!,. 2, 2./,J
                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                          r;
                                                                                                                                                   r;
                                                                                                                                                   ~
                                                                                                                                                          /0    ?.I IC.7 1./J.I
                                                                                                                                                     /!, l'-1 /.f,5 .J/.t
                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                           t    //
                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Total Cerlllin lllllblful Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                         z
                                                                                                                                                                                                         /7     /J.(J
                                                                                                                                                                                                          .r x'.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ~?,       2.2, ef.q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          tU.9 .lt..9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
2·Airc,aft                 I          I       2 R. .! 2.3 t/. I,                .J'      ✓            7 £.5              ;.7 tff.1,       <"      2,  7 /(J.4 ,ft /Q,(,                    d     /                          ?,2 /().?
3-LilhtPtlemm.
4-Birds
5-Clouds. Dust. etc.
                          /]

                          0
                          /]
                                  n
                                  0
                                  IJ
                                             0
                                             t?
                                             0
                                                    /J,1

                                                    IJ.t)
                                                    /]_/)
                                                             n /J
                                                              n.o no
                                                                       /J.n

                                                              IJ. /, n ,._
                                                                                 /]

                                                                                 z
                                                                                 0
                                                                                         /}
                                                                                            I

                                                                                            /J       0
                                                                                                      I    ,1.2,
                                                                                                          11.tJ
                                                                                                    ,2 ,/! /}, (}
                                                                                                           ,,.   /)    0,/J
                                                                                                                                 '1,2,
                                                                                                                                 -0
                                                                                                                                 I?/]
                                                                                                                                          /}

                                                                                                                                          Cl
                                                                                                                                          /)
                                                                                                                                                  /)

                                                                                                                                                  t7
                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                           0

                                                                                                                                                           /
                                                                                                                                                                IJ /)    /J/J /) /)
                                                                                                                                                                /1/J /.J./J
                                                                                                                                                                /1/1    2,/
                                                                                                                                                                                  /) /]

                                                                                                                                                                                  1,/
                                                                                                                                                                                  f?_f
                                                                                                                                                                                           /J
                                                                                                                                                                                           /7

                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 c?
                                                                                                                                                                                                 IJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                 /}
                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /J_/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,r) /)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /.J, tJ IJ.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /J 11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            t}. 0 tJ.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /}/}


                                                                                                                                                                                                         {) //1_,; /11' 1/(7. 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
6-lnsuffic.klfo.          9                   '? ttJ.f                 2/1.P     7                   7 1st 0.0 /<;_t                      4                ~    £.5      /J_/1                   IJ
                                  0                           t).(J                      /}                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                           "/
7-Psycoological
8-Unlmo•
9-0lller
                          I
                         //
                          (,
                                 0
                                  t?
                                      I
                                              I    ?. ~       /J,O l?.S

                                            II ?1;.(, 11 tJ 2~/,
                                              7    1,/,(J     2-3 /{,.!
                                                                                 /
                                                                                 r;
                                                                                 z.
                                                                                         /J
                                                                                        /J
                                                                                         0
                                                                                                     I 2.2- ,l./1 2-2
                                                                                                     'J 1/J. (J /J_/J 'U).i?
                                                                                                    z t/.S              /') /)   ,/.(
                                                                                                                                          /]
                                                                                                                                          y
                                                                                                                                          ?.
                                                                                                                                                 IJ
                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                  /)
                                                                                                                                                           {7   /},/)   17,/J


                                                                                                                                                           z ld..t 17 0 ¢:t
                                                                                                                                                                                  /J.n
                                                                                                                                                           '? 11.1 /J, (J 11.1 /.l,
                                                                                                                                                                                           Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                 /}
                                                                                                                                                                                                 /}
                                                                                                                                                                                                 /7
                                                                                                                                                                                                         I '2-2. /J. tJ 1 ..z
                                                                                                                                                                                                        12 ~/,_/ /J,IJ '2t.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                         ¥'. S/.1 /).0 fl. 'J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
    Total              .?!<      s Ifs ii.I/ //,{, /IJO.                       .?tJ   1'-          ~ 1,5:2 ..1-/.i 1170-                 30    ;g ¥-~ ~2-~ .!1.5" /tlQ· :n /3 'I" 1/.I :d..t ltlO·
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                      172
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
I
I
I                           771,fLE


                                       ftlmbef
                                                      1/1112

                                              J;,.,ul)/.211
                                                             Per Cent
                                                                          £ JIiiL VllO(JAi
                                                                          Ft7,(    MtllVTHS
                                                                                            t?,c


                                                                                               Number
                                                                                                            rc4Rv,,,,,,
                                                                                                                     Per Cent                    Numbef
                                                                                                                                                         Flt/£
                                                                                                                                                           AA~,tel{
                                                                                                                                                                      SEt!0/1/IJS


                                                                                                                                                                          Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                             CJR     LESS

                                                                                                                                                                                                    Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                              LlPiPtL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PerCellt
                               Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total            ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total     ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total


I
             EVlluatioo
        0-Ballooo                 /}          /)         0     t?/J      /JJ, /J,t)       /J       /J         0    o.o ao 0.0              I}        /J      t? /JtJ         (J./) /J. ()     I        /}           I    ff.!     /J_/J   !U
        l•Aslronomical                                                                                         P 30.0 {11.0 'Jl).t         ¢'                      2~! J:7}_17 if!                                      ;;;')_tJ tl.O l~o
                                                  9 JZ ~t?.t) lf,/),/J fl/11'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '
                                 ~                                                        1            L                                             /.     /0                                h        0
        2-Aucraft                 /)              /J     0     /J_ /J   /J 1-J /J,/J      /J           /J      tJ ~-0  /7.0 tJ.O           /J        /)      t)    /J,/J     /}_/)   /1,t,     /      /J          I      ~q /J/J 9-1
                                                        0 ,..,,.., /J.tJ /J.O

I
        ~LightPtlenom.            /)          /)                                         tJ       17          0    &O     0.0 P.0          /J        /)      0     IJ./J IJ./J 17.o           /J       /)       0       /J,/} 1UJ /J. tJ
    4•Birds                      /J           t?        0 /J /J /J. /J /J /J              0       ~           p    0.0    e,.o c;u,        /J       0        0     tJ.O 17.,? lt?.t?          /J       I        I       t?.tJ Jl.1 f-5
        5-Clouds, Dust, etc.      /}         t}_        0 /J,IJ 0/J t}_tJ                IJ        (}         0 ao 0.0 ,:u,                t'       0        0     ti.CJ IJ.O /J.n            /}       0         0      /J,/J 1'20 /J.IJ
        6-lnsuffic. blfo.        I}           /J        0 /}17 CJ. I} /?.{)              /J        0          0 a~ 0.0 0.0                 I        t)       I     f/5 tJ. /J 0                /
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,..,      I       ~   _;   /)/)    ~j
                                                                                                              0 ao ,0.0 0.0                                                                                             ao /JO /JO
I
        7-Psydl,lo1ical           I           /J        I 1,,? /J.O L. 1                  /J       /J                                      /}      t)        0     IJ.O /J.() tJ.tJ            /}      0         0
    &-Unllllown                  I           tJ          I /,.1 CJ.CJ t.1                0         n          0 tl.D o.a O.o               /        /J        I    f'.1     1).0     ff.5     2.      0          z      lt.1 t?.0 16.1
    ~Iller                       /J           /         I /J /J 1.1 L.?                  I         /J          I   JO.I) d.0     /tJ.0     /J       /J       0     tJ.(} /J.O /J_/J           /)       /J        0      -'?/J     12/J    /7, /J




I   i       Total                s          /0 IS f1J                   j/..7 /t'ti      I/-      ~          /0 #,D ,o.o /(}4.            (o       ~        IZ f/!t:, QJ.o '/tJtJ.           ;/        I       IZ 1//-t           ff.:j 1/JtJ.




I                                                     M.nv                                                     /,.,,,,                                      ./1'Ll/                                    4t16u~r
    I Evaluation                           Number            Per Cent                Number                Per Cent                 Number                Per Cent                Number
                               Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total K;ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Ooubtfu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PerCait
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Total Certain Doubtful Total
        0-Ballooo                 /)          /J         t:J ().0       0.0 ()_0             I     ,(?         I    ?.1 /J.O .17            I       ~        .5'   /,/       .2..t   f.5      /J      .f        3       I)_()     J'.9     19


I       I-Astronomical
        2·Aircraft
        3·Litht Phnm.
        4-Birds
                                  5'
                                  q
                                  tJ
                                      /J
                                             2,
                                              I
                                              0
                                              f)
                                                         7 Pt.J /{?.!, ft.i
                                                        s 2/./ ~.f ·?tJI
                                                         (l    ao (J.0 ao
                                                         0 0.0 o.tJ o.O
                                                                                          ,o


                                                                                          tJ
                                                                                             ?
                                                                                             /J
                                                                                                   g
                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                   tJ
                                                                                                             /9 Jt.l) ,t9,(,. tt.t
                                                                                                              'f I/./ .J'.1 It/~
                                                                                                              0 t),0 (!).{J t7.0
                                                                                                              C) tJ.O atJ ,:;.o
                                                                                                                                         26 JJ' S'I- ff.I /9.!i 5i.t. If
                                                                                                                                          .< f 17 $.f
                                                                                                                                           /
                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                    t?
                                                                                                                                                    ft,      3
                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                  ., ~
                                                                                                                                                                lfl'
                                                                                                                                                                   1./
                                                                                                                                                                    I.I
                                                                                                                                                                             r.s
                                                                                                                                                                            o.o
                                                                                                                                                                            2-2 '!.S
                                                                                                                                                                                     /,/       0
                                                                                                                                                                                               /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                     j'_,:;
                                                                                                                                                                                                       6

                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                'fS /1,,? q,_;-:4 L2;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '1 .H ~I 11'1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I ao /._g 1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         o.CJ {!),t) tJ.0


I       5-Clouds, Oust, etc.
        6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
        7-Psycl-ological
                                  tJ
                                  f
                                 /J
                                             (J
                                              (l
                                              n
                                                         0
                                                         3 /5-3 tJ.O lfi.fi
                                                         0
                                                            t?.0 0. 0 t?.O

                                                               ao 0.0 ao
                                                        z /,:7.!, tJ.O /0.5
                                                                                          tJ

                                                                                          ;?
                                                                                             ?
                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                   t)
                                                                                                              0 ao Qc) t),O
                                                                                                              3 /// (!).0 ti/
                                                                                                              (J   0.0 O.CJ t),0
                                                                                                                   o.o cJ.O o.,:;
                                                                                                                                           /J
                                                                                                                                           2..
                                                                                                                                           CJ
                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                     I

                                                                                                                                                    t?
                                                                                                                                                             z
                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                              I 0.0

                                                                                                                                                              o.o
                                                                                                                                                             ru
                                                                                                                                                                             /./
                                                                                                                                                                            I.I
                                                                                                                                                                   2.2 o.o 2.1.
                                                                                                                                                                       0-d 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                              /J
                                                                                                                                                                                              ,(,

                                                                                                                                                                                               /
                                                                                                                                                                                                       /?


                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                        CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Cl.O


                                                                                                                                                                                                                        i.f.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              O.CJ 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        'f G O,i!J ,f, 8'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  tJ.0 /..J
        &-Unknown                2.           tJ                                          /J      0           0                            ,;       0                  o.O f.fl               t!.       t?       6       1i o.o            ?<l



I       9-0ther


            Total               /6
                                  1!

                                             3
                                              t)        z /tl.!i Cl.O /0-5

                                                        /"I tt/2 /5.fi la?.
                                                                                          I

                                                                                         IB
                                                                                                  (?          I    f.1

                                                                                                   '1 Zi I.L.7 .h'-5 l1n,
                                                                                                                          CJ.O    f.7     2-        t?       z     2-2 d,0 2.2

                                                                                                                                         ,o 3Z '/Z l/.52 j',f.'f I@.
                                                                                                                                                                                              1'

                                                                                                                                                                                             :? I
                                                                                                                                                                                                         /       3      .:l.b /, .1

                                                                                                                                                                                                     '/6 77 1/tU ,.,. g /t)(J.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           19




I                                      Number
                                                  SE               - -
                                                              Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                            Oer,oR,:~
                                                                                                            Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                                                                    A/..-:io"£L.

                                                                                                                                                          Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                   A#,e

                                                                                                                                                                                  Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                              /Jt:t:E""d" R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Per Cent



I
             Evaluation        Certain DOlrbtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu                       Total Certain Doubtful Total
        0-Balloon                 JJ              tJ 0         tJ.0      t>.(1   o.o      ,J       0          0     tW 0.,:) tJ.O          ,I)      /)       0     tJ.O O.tJ 0.0              ,tl      tJ       0 o.O t).t/ o.o
        I-Astronomical           //                I /Z
                                                               ~'        s:o lo 0.1 /2,            £         17 4'!.9 I l l /n_~            ~        ';1    ~   5'1.3 J'J'..! U.t            //        ~       zo //18 J'V ft'.?
        2-Aimatt                   I              2,     3     s.o      /0.0 JS.O            I     y          ~ .U, lt'.1 11.U             ?.,       /       3 ?.5 4.f 11/..1                 CJ      0          0      C),0 o.O ,tl,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
I       l·light Phenom.
        4-Birds
        5-Clouds. Dust, etc.
                                  (}
                                  CJ
                                  /)
                                              I}
                                              /)

                                              /J
                                                         tJ



                                                         z
                                                          0
                                                          0
                                                               d.O
                                                               t?.O
                                                               ao o.o
                                                               /0.0
                                                                         0.0
                                                                        o.o ao

                                                                        o.o
                                                                                 0.0

                                                                                 /).0
                                                                                          /J

                                                                                          0
                                                                                             /
                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                  /J
                                                                                                              I t:).l) _pt, .?.t.
                                                                                                              z
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                   _jl,   u.
                                                                                                                  rJ.O 0.0 t).t)
                                                                                                                   .tt. 0,0 J'.t.
                                                                                                                                  7,1,
                                                                                                                                            /
                                                                                                                                           I?
                                                                                                                                           /?
                                                                                                                                                     /J
                                                                                                                                                     /J
                                                                                                                                                    /J
                                                                                                                                                             0 tl.0 t).0 o.o
                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                              I d.~ tUJ ,-If

                                                                                                                                                                   t:).0     LJ.O CJ.(}
                                                                                                                                                                   CJ.CJ ().0 i!JO
                                                                                                                                                                                              tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                              tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                              t:?
                                                                                                                                                                                              ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                       CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                       c?
                                                                                                                                                                                                       /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,tl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    tJ.tJ t!).0 e,_o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0 t}.0 ,:J.Cl P-0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0 0.0 0.t? t),t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0 ao CU} tJ.O
        6-lnsutfic.lnfo.          2,          /J                                 /0.0        /     ,7                                      c?      0         0


I       7-Psych:llogical
        11-!Jnknown
        9-0ther
                                  Cl
                                  2,
                                  t?
                                               tJ
                                              tJ
                                                  I
                                                         0
                                                         z /M
                                                         I
                                                               o.o o.o o.o

                                                               tJ.O
                                                                        0.0
                                                                         StJ
                                                                                 /0.t
                                                                                 s.o
                                                                                         ~
                                                                                          tJ

                                                                                             /)
                                                                                                  t)
                                                                                                  t1
                                                                                                  IJ
                                                                                                              0 tJ.O 0.0 ().0
                                                                                                              3 ,11.1 0,0 ltJ.7
                                                                                                              l'J {},O ao ao
                                                                                                                                           /)

                                                                                                                                           ft
                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                   c?
                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                    C
                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                             2
                                                                                                                                                                   0.0 ao ,::u,
                                                                                                                                                                   u·    t).0 f.5
                                                                                                                                                              I I ./.9 ao ~f
                                                                                                                                                                                              Cl
                                                                                                                                                                                              ..t
                                                                                                                                                                                              /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                      C
                                                                                                                                                                                                      IJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0 t!).0 oo t),(J

                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 :? Jf,tJ o.o /f.t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        o.oao 0.0

I           Total               /6            ~         ;zo 80.0 zo.o /00,              /fl       /IJ z~ ff./ J5'.1 /OJ?.                /3         8 ZI ti.? 5'1./ lltJO. 14                          '1      Z3 M,9 3'1./ /t1ti




I
I
I
I
I                                                                                                                         173


I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            11
                            VJIILE


                                        rtJmber
                                                   Ii Ill

                                                   fAAwO~{/
                                                          Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                     ,C,t:-!Rfl"A"
                                                                                                        Per Cent                              NumbeJ
                                                                                                                                                        MA,P(!;;'
                                                                                                                                                                  Per Cent                 Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                           L7AA

                                                                                                                                                                                                               • Perc..t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
         Evaluation         Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total               ertan Doubtful Total Certain lloobtful Total Cel1ain Doubtful Total certain Doubtful Tot~
    0-BallOOII
II-Astronomical
    2-Aircraft
                               17

                                /]
                                  I
                                            Cl

                                             /
                                                       0       0.0 o.O
                                             I ·z ii'O.C ;eo,o 'f-().C /
                                                 I ao zo.o 20.0 /J
                                                                              t).IJ   ~
                                                                                            /)
                                                                                            /]
                                                                                                tJ     0 tJ.O o.o o.o
                                                                                                       I '""·' ao /()OJ
                                                                                                       0 P.0 o.o              "·"
                                                                                                                                       /)

                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                 /J
                                                                                                                                                 /J
                                                                                                                                                 /)
                                                                                                                                                          0    0.0 aP fl.0
                                                                                                                                                          I zo.tJ 0.0 20.0
                                                                                                                                                           I ,i?D.0 0,0 ,Z(/,0
                                                                                                                                                                                          ,,;J

                                                                                                                                                                                          11.
                                                                                                                                                                                           ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Cl

                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                   /7
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                            ;z
                                                                                                                                                                                                            3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   o.o "'-0 o.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  :zz.z o.o zz.z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  z:z.z I(. I 33.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                0 0.0 o.o o.c                                                     o.o o.o                                                                                          o.o o. () o.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
    3-Light Phenom.               /}        /)                          /J                  /J         0        0.0                     /}      CJ        0 o.o 0.0 o.o                    17     /7        0
    4•8i1ds                       /)        ,.J 0 0.0 o.o ao           /J                   0          0     O.() o.o i,.O             n        /J        0 o.o o.0 a.o                   /7          /J    0      ao o.C, o.o
    5-Clouds. Dus~ etc.            /}      /7 0 0.0 ao 0.0 /]                               /)         0     0.0 o.o o.o               /)       t?        tJ ao o.o 0.0                    /J     /J        0      o.o o.D o.o
    6-lnsuffic.lnfo.               I       C I ZOtJ o.o 200 I}                              0          0     O.o 0.0 o.o               /)        n        0        "-0    ao 0.0           /      t::l      I     I/./ o.o /I. (
                                                                                                             o.o ().0 o.o                                                        o.o                                                 cu:.
                                                0 0.0 O.o ().0 ,,J                                                                                                 ao                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
    7-Psydl>logial                /J       /)                                               /J        0                                /J        /7       C)              0.0              /J     /)              O.t:)     o.0
    &-Unkno111n                   I        0     I 200 ao ;zo.o 0                           /)         0     ().0 o.o o.O              ~        cl        3       60.0    0.0 61).0        f      /J        3     33.f     t).t:J   33.3
    ~Other                      /}          /)  CJ ao o.o 0.0 /J                            0          0     0.0 o.o o.O               /)       0         0       t).O    o.O    a.o       /)     Cl        0     o.cJ      0.0      a.o

                                                                                                                                                         s /Od.0 o.o 140,
       Total                  3           z           5       ~0.0     ~o /DO.        I     0         I     /00.0      0.0    /DO.    s         0                                         ~       I         9 n.9          /I. I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '""·
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
         Evaluation
    0-Balloon                    I
                                        Number
                                                   M,,,,
                                                           Per Cent                Number


                                                                                       I     /}
                                                                                                     J, .. -:
                                                                                                         PerCenl
                             Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total
                                           ,tJ         I      /0.0     0.0 /tJ.D                 I s:i 0.0 5:,:,                          I
                                                                                                                                              Hume,
                                                                                                                                                         lnt..<I


                                                                                                                                      ertain lloobtful Total Certain lloobtful Total Certain Doobtfu Total Cel1ain Omrbtful Toi~
                                                                                                                                                 /)           I
                                                                                                                                                                    Per Cent


                                                                                                                                                                   !1.9   ().0   1-9       /J
                                                                                                                                                                                             Number


                                                                                                                                                                                                  .f
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,4✓l/4/, [7'


                                                                                                                                                                                                            3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Per Cent


                                                                                                                                                                                                               ao I/./ Ill
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
    I-Astronomical
    2-Aimaft
    3-light Phenom.
    ~Birds
                               I
                                ?

                               /J
                               I}
                                           /}

                                           I
                                           I
                                           ,?
                                                      if!
                                                      2

                                                      0
                                                       I
                                                              a,.o o.o ;eo.o
                                                              /.0.0 10.0 ii:d.0
                                                               ao /0.'0 1tJ.r.
                                                              P.0 (7.0 P.tJ
                                                                                      ~
                                                                                      ?
                                                                                      /]
                                                                                      /]
                                                                                            n
                                                                                            /
                                                                                            0
                                                                                             ?' /0 II.. 7 .JS'.9 !>!i.l..
                                                                                                 3 IM t).0 /t.1
                                                                                                 I t).O 5'./, 5.1.
                                                                                                 0 (!).O 0.0 t?.O
                                                                                                                                       /Q
                                                                                                                                        ~

                                                                                                                                        /)
                                                                                                                                        /}      0
                                                                                                                                                 6

                                                                                                                                                 /)
                                                                                                                                                     ;zo !~o /;'./ ,;1,/
                                                                                                                                                ..J' e ;,lg i'.t 22.9
                                                                                                                                                      0 ao t1. 0 &1.0
                                                                                                                                                       0 ao a.o o.c.
                                                                                                                                                                                           ~
                                                                                                                                                                                           R
                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                           /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                  J'
                                                                                                                                                                                                  ..J'
                                                                                                                                                                                                  /)

                                                                                                                                                                                                      /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                             b 11.1 I l l j'li
                                                                                                                                                                                                            // ?f. f, //./ 1/(J.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                             I ?. ~ 0.0 s.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0 o.o 00 ao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
    S.-Clouds. Oust. etc.
    S-lnsuffic. Info.
    7-Psycholo1ical
                               /J
                               2.
                               tJ
                                           /)

                                           CJ
                                            /J
                                                      0
                                                      2
                                                      0
                                                               ao o.t o.e;
                                                              zo.t o.o 2().4
                                                               ao 0.0 t:).0
                                                              2,u,
                                                                                      /J
                                                                                      £
                                                                                      /)
                                                                                            /)

                                                                                            0
                                                                                            /)
                                                                                                 0 ao 0.0 o.tJ
                                                                                                 z //./ o:o II.I
                                                                                                       0     <JJ.4
                                                                                                          I s ..
                                                                                                                       i,.o   IJ.0
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        /
                                                                                                                                        /J
                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                 /}



                                                                                                                                                 /}
                                                                                                                                                      0 (7.0 t).0 o.o
                                                                                                                                                      I 2.9 "·o M
                                                                                                                                                          0        t,.0   0.0
                                                                                                                                                         ',L //.// o.o 1/.t/
                                                                                                                                                                                 "-0
                                                                                                                                                                                           ,-'}

                                                                                                                                                                                           /
                                                                                                                                                                                           17
                                                                                                                                                                                           4'
                                                                                                                                                                                                  t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                  /7
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  a.o o.o t::lO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .?.7 o.o ..f.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  o.o (J.0 "·o
                                                                                                                                                                                                            ¥- /,/§ iJ.o l.t/ff
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
    8-Unkno'MI                 ~           0
                                                      ,., o.o o.o o.o C
                                                      2                tJ.O 'Zt:J.t   I     Ll                         o.tJ   5:,:,     p'       0                                                /)




I
    9-0ttler


        Total                 y
                                /)         Ll

                                          2.         /0 go.o zo.o 100, /tJ
                                                                                            0

                                                                                            l?
                                                                                                       0     o.o ,u:; t).O

                                                                                                     Ii' 15'5"6 41°¢¢' 1/PtJ. z~
                                                                                                                                        I        0       I 2.9 tJ,0 ?.9

                                                                                                                                                 'i' JS '/t/.J 16.7 la?.
                                                                                                                                                                                           /

                                                                                                                                                                                          /.Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                  CJ        I   .J'.7 ~() .J'.7

                                                                                                                                                                                                  9 Z7 1¼1 ff..J IOtJ.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                               Se.Pre~Ac,e                                           /7,._ ,re,e                                        AIAve~Ar,I?_                                   /Jce€-A£,f!!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
I                                    Number                 Per Cent                   Nu-                   PerCmt                           Nul!Eer              Per Cent                 Number               Per Cent
         Evaluation
    0-Balloon
    I-Astronomical
    2-Aircraft
                             Certain Ootrbtful Total Certain lloubtfu I Total Certain lloubllul Total Certain Doobtful Total



                                i
                               /}
                                  /J           /
                                               /
                                              ?.
                                                       I o.o /0.0 /0.0
                                                      .J' zo.O /0.t! .70.0
                                                       2   0.0 PtJ.O zo.o
                                                                                      ;J
                                                                                      ✓
                                                                                      /J
                                                                                            .?
                                                                                            /}
                                                                                                /J     0 o.e- 0.0 o.o ~
                                                                                                       7 f'½~ 3:1.s 77.l .J'
                                                                                                       tJ       oo 0.0 ao
                                                                                                                                      ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain lloobtfu Total Cel1ain Dmrbtful Total




                                                                                                                                        /7
                                                                                                                                                 ~
                                                                                                                                                 /)

                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                          3
                                                                                                                                                          t:)
                                                                                                                                                                  tJ.0 o.o
                                                                                                                                                                  75.0 o.c. 7s.D
                                                                                                                                                                   1.0 ao (J.O
                                                                                                                                                                                 "·" 17
                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                           /}         /J     0     CJ.t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                   :z. ,e ao /0"-D /00.C
                                                                                                                                                                                                   17 0   ao tJ.0 00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ao c?.t:J       I
·3-Light Phenom.
    4-Birds
    S-Clouds. Dust, etc.
                               /]
                               tJ
                               C
                                            4
                                            I
                                            ,,;       0
                                                       0
                                                          I
                                                               d.O 0.0 d.O
                                                               tJ.t /().t! /().0
                                                              0,0      o.o ~o
                                                               ao o.o o.c.
                                                                                      t:J
                                                                                      /J
                                                                                      /J    tJ
                                                                                              /J
                                                                                             /J
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                0.0
                                                                                                                /1()
                                                                                                                       o.o ao
                                                                                                                   0.0 O.C,
                                                                                                             t:J.o ao IJ.0
                                                                                                             C/D t:J.O 0.0
                                                                                                                                        /J
                                                                                                                                        /7
                                                                                                                                       /J
                                                                                                                                                 /}

                                                                                                                                                 t7
                                                                                                                                                t?
                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                  O.tJ tJ. 0
                                                                                                                                                                   ao o.o 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                   ao o.o 1).0
                                                                                                                                                                   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                 C:,.G



                                                                                                                                                                                 I!).()
                                                                                                                                                                                           4
                                                                                                                                                                                           /7

                                                                                                                                                                                          ,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                           /]
                                                                                                                                                                                                  /,)
                                                                                                                                                                                                  t.J 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                  /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0

                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ao o.t? 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0  0.0 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0 0.0 ao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0 ao tl.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
    6-tnsuffic.lnfo.           /J           /'J       0                               /)    0                                          t)        t?       0               ().0                    0
    7-Psychological
    8-Unknown
    9-0ther
                               tJ
                               J
                               t?
                                            /)
                                            0
                                           /)
                                                      0        ().{)   0.0 0.0
                                                      j ' 340 &.0 3tJ.tJ
                                                      0 0.0 0.0 tJ.O
                                                                                      ,.J
                                                                                      :z,
                                                                                      t?
                                                                                            CJ
                                                                                            Cl
                                                                                            t?
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                       z
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                            "-0
                                                                                                            2Z.Z
                                                                                                             o.o
                                                                                                                       o.o ao
                                                                                                                       o.o z.e:z
                                                                                                                       tJ.O o.c
                                                                                                                                       C
                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                       /}
                                                                                                                                                 t.J
                                                                                                                                                /J
                                                                                                                                                17
                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                          /
                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                   ao t'-0 O.tJ /J
                                                                                                                                                                  zs.o o.o zs.o tJ
                                                                                                                                                                   tJ.o   (J.O   0,0      tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                  /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                  t:J
                                                                                                                                                                                                   t:J
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0

                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.Cl Oo c?.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,:)_ tJ 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  tJ.tl    t:J.(?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    atJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
        Total                 s           -~         /0       oo.,1 S'O.tJ /(}().     C.    3          '1 ,,.7 37-3 100.               t.f       0        'I- /00.0 0.0 /(JO• 0                   z         z 0.0          /0,,.O /Oo.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                      174
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                          __,...

I
I
I
I
          Enl-
     0-Balloao
     l·AsllOIIOfflial
     2•Aircraft



I
     3-Li&III l'llenom.
     4•Bi11ls
     S-Clouds, Dus~elc.
     6-lnsuffic. tnfD.



I    ........
     7-Psydl>lopcal


     9-0111,.




I        Total




I         Evaluation
     0-Ballooo



I    1-A-ical
     2-Airaaft
     Hi&llll'llenom.
     4-Birds


I    S-Cloud~ Dus~ etc.
     6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
     l•Psychological
     8-Unknown


I    9-0lher


         Total




I                                  St:11. eM c.e


I         Evaluation
     0-Balloon
      }-Astronomical
     2·Aircraft


I    3-Lilht Phenom.
     4-Birds
     ~Cloud~ Dus~ etc.
     6-tnsuffic.lnfo.


I    7-PsycOOlogical
     8-Unknolll
     9-0ther




I        Total               t


I
I
1·
I
I                                                  175

I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
     E"'ualion
0-S.IIDDII
1-Asbonomical
2-Aircraft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
3-Lia,,tPh810m.
t.Birds


6-lnsuffic. Info.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
7-Psydlolo!ical
I-Unknown                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
     Evaluation
                                    M4l/
                                   Number            Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                   hM,E
                                                                                                   Per Cent
                       Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total
                                                                                                                                             Nunler
                                                                                                                                                         lut.U
                                                                                                                                                                   Percent                 Number
                                                                                                                                     Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Ooubtfu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,4,,G057'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PerCml
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
0-Balloon                 /}          /)       /J 17 /}      /)   /}   /) i:J   17            /J     {J    ,?r: /J tJ /J /J             5       .f!-     Z1 /. d.? F/9
                                                                                                                                                               '7                                  /     d        5     .2 I       /,!,5 15'.t.
1-Astronomieal
2-Aircrah
3-Liaht Phtmm.
                         ..?
                         :I,
                          tJ
                                     0
                                      I/
                                         /}    5 4U /) /J //ff
                                               ? fff.t. 0,tJ 2t. t.
                                               ,? /J.O /J /J /? 0
                                                                                /J


                                                                                0
                                                                                 ?
                                                                                          0
                                                                                          :1,
                                                                                          CJ
                                                                                                     0    /J/J 171'.J /JO
                                                                                                     5 11.5 ~5.tJ ~,?,5
                                                                                                     /J l/47/J I".!,? tJ.tJ
                                                                                                                                        /
                                                                                                                                      /2,
                                                                                                                                        /}
                                                                                                                                                17    / !?./ /J /J 2.1
                                                                                                                                              /2, ,.2// 155 25:5 51.0
                                                                                                                                                /   , / /JtJ 21 11
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ..1
                                                                                                                                                                                                  _;,
                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                         .$
                                                                                                                                                                                                          z
                                                                                                                                                                                                          /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t,     i?. ✓
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ?,// /.:.s 15.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   / I/. tJ .?.I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    M' /,0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,?/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
4-Birds                   /J         I}        /J   /J /) rJ /) t?O             /J        0          IJ IJ/J 11./J /J/J                 /       /J            I       2J      /Jd :2./             /J    /J       /J 1111,::?      t?.t:J   /?/1
5-Cloud~ Dus~ et~
6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
7-Psychological
                          /J
                         I?
                         /}
                                      tJ
                                     tJ
                                     tJ
                                              tJ o.o /JO l?.0
                                              0 cJ,CJ /J /J tJ. t,
                                              0  o.o /J./} /JO
                                                                                0
                                                                                0
                                                                                /,}
                                                                                          0
                                                                                          /J
                                                                                          tJ
                                                                                                     /J t?.eJ O.eJ /JO
                                                                                                    IJ '/470 /J. /J ao
                                                                                                    tJ /J/) 17£} ,2/J
                                                                                                                                        tJ
                                                                                                                                        .?
                                                                                                                                        /J
                                                                                                                                                ,:J
                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                               /7
                                                                                                                                                          J
                                                                                                                                                              d

                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                     /JC?    ao 0/J
                                                                                                                                                                      1.4" IJtJ L..1/
                                                                                                                                                                     /JO t'JtJ /J,eJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                  /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                  ff
                                                                                                                                                                                                  .z
                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                         /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                         tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 t?     Cl./J /JtJ /J 17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4' 11.5 cJ.O 11.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  :Z f..3 /JO i.S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                         :1,                   ~ 1f:6 /? /} 21.t,                                    2, 2!rtJ /4n '?,:;p                                            .2/3 tJ.O £/J'                 f              ? 28'.I I?. t7 2$'./

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
1-Unkno""                             /)                                        2-       0                                            /17       0        /CJ                                             d
9-0tller                 I}          /}       n 17. r, I)_/} /J 0               17        /         I tJ.tl /2.5 ,z.5                   /1      /J            /J    tl.tJ      /J,,.,     ao      tJ     /J       ,,,   /J,/J /J,tJ /J. 0


    Total                1           tJ        '1 //?tJ.I. tJ.tJ       IP/1,    5        .1         $'    ~.ts J'15 la? .? .2..               15 ,/7 II.I"./ :Jlf /r)(J.                         2:2     /0     J':Z 1&9:7 .71.1 /Cl().


                                          Ji< ,P7 G'.'- ""eL>                                      /J4-rtJA' r-A!                                      A✓ -                  A--
                                                                                                                                                                                                          £let!G'~.,,,ee
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
I Evaluation                                                Percent                                                Per CentNuntler               Per Cent                Number                                               Per Cent


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                   Numbef                                               Number
                       Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Ootmtlul Total Certain Dooblful Total certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Ooubtfu                                 Total Certain Doubtful Tot~
0-Balloon                 I}             I      I /J.tJ       ,f_ 7     '7.7        /         /J      I /f..J /J /) ;,/,.J              /}       I                I l,1.t7 £d.t7 /J/J/J            /      /       .t     f. ? L..1 I.?.~
I-Astronomical            /J             I     y 115:4" '7.7 2.1./              fl            /J     :1, 29:t. /J /J fit                /J      :1,.          /J     /) tl¢t7tJ d?r-               /J     ::?     d     lf..1 /,/...1 :Jt.. t
2-Aircraft                   ?           I     J 2?.I 77 .J~.                       /         /J     /    ;f.J      /J,O 1//f            I      /7             I     ftVJ t7.0 M.t7               . ?'    5'.     5     '2.!}.(J   /'l.3 J.f.3
3-LiehtPtlenom.
4-Birds
S.Clouds, Oust, etc.
                          /J


                          ,/J
                              /]
                                     IJ
                                      I
                                     /J
                                              /}

                                               /

                                               0
                                                 /J.C /JO /J/)
                                                 ,1,/J ..,_ 7 -7.1
                                                    17,/J l'.)./J  /10
                                                                                /J
                                                                                I)
                                                                                /J
                                                                                          tJ
                                                                                           /)

                                                                                           17
                                                                                                     17 £);; tJ 17 /20
                                                                                                     I? 40 120 cJ.O
                                                                                                     /7 cJo tJ. /J 170
                                                                                                                                       CJ
                                                                                                                                       /J
                                                                                                                                       /,}
                                                                                                                                                tJ
                                                                                                                                               /7
                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                              /J
                                                                                                                                                              /J
                                                                                                                                                                     17/J
                                                                                                                                                                     /}//

                                                                                                                                                              /J 117.0
                                                                                                                                                                              ao /J.O
                                                                                                                                                                              /Jt? /J /J
                                                                                                                                                                               IJ.O /J.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                  /?

                                                                                                                                                                                                   /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                         /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /J. tJ 17.0 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tJ.o tJ.0 /J.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0 1'7.0 170
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
6-tnsuffic.lnfa.                     /J        I    '11      /J.t? ,1_1         /J         /J        /J   l'7 /,    O.tJ      /}/J      /       /J            /     !'1/J.o tJ.t) 1tJ. t)         /7     t?       /J    /J.O       /J. tJ otJ

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                          I
1-Psychololical           I)         /J        tJ // ✓? /7,/} ,-:J_t,           /J        tJ         /}   /J lj t? 0          n n       /}      0             /}     /J./J
                                                                                                                                                                         /J.O IJ.O                0      tJ       0     tJ.cJ      /J.O !/J.O
8-Unknolll               1           0        _J' 2JI /20 n.1                   .?        17        J' 1¢1.K eJ,O ✓.a                  /J       /7            0 ao tJ.O o.o                       2-     /}        :z. 1.J,.J /J. tl /J..1
9-0tlle!                 /)          /J        t?   ~,o       /J.O /J //        /)        (?        /J I/J /J /J.O /) tl               /}      /)             /J 11? I? /}. tl 170                .2..   /J       :z. lf.:J /J. 0 1.lJ
                                                                                                     ,,
    Tolll                fl         ,/        /?    t.f   z J'o.K /,?,::7       '7        /J              1.?t'-, IJ.0 liJtJ.          :z.    .f'         5         ,Wl/l     /./)_ /l   11.&1    /cJ    5       15 l/./.7 .f.!.$ lt7tJ.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                               176
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
I
I
I                                                                   /:V,1/Ll/,frt(J,f/
                                                                    ,:   ,.,,                                 t),t;     (/Alff >IG/ff'/A/6S .cae t?LL */IRS
                                                                                                                       t?r    VE;'le'
                                                                                                                                                                                                   11,f            ,?I/LAV17111
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,,,,,-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OF S/GHT(UG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .,,,,,,, .. ,,,_I/is




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -
                                                                                         MOAlr,-,ts                                         S/J'T</ AA ✓~ ,r                                                       -r/7

                                             J,-., •LJA,:/                                                 ,t:°(£ /fl,t'pLJ,Pl/                                     MA,<;,!#                                                      ,4,,?, t.
                                   rt,-                  PerC"'t                 Number                PerC...t                 Nu-                   Percent                                        PerC...t
                           Ce!IJin Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total t;ertain Doubtful Total certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain.. Doubtful Tot~


I
         Evalaatioll
    0-Ballaoo                 I          I            2. ,/J/J J/J./} IUJ.tJ                /         /)          I      91        /J. tl 4.1           /         /]        I ~I ,o.tJ '?.1                :t.            t?         z       7.7       0.0        17
    1-Astmnomical            :Z,        tJ        ;;tl'1/J/l       -'?" IMo                 /J        I           I     /J. /}     4. I      9./      tJ      /)            0 ,?/J t?. tJ I) 0             /J             /J         0       tf.O      o.o 0.0
                                                                                                                  z JJ:t                                      :v           ~ /ft /%.2 i't9                                           9 2t.? 17 .li/1,
    2-Aimlfl                 :v          I
                                                      "' IM,; ~,, tJ.tJ
                                                                  1ao .1tJ /)              ',J.      0                             /}/}    /K".t     $,                                                     '7            2,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     tJ o.o

I                                                                                                                CJ
    3-Liahl Ptlenom.          /}         /}       0      17./J                             17         0                  J'.?'7    ,, /I
                                                                                                                                            /J./J    t:J      /J           0 /.?/J /J,/J /J.O              /}             /J                           0.0 0.0
    4-Birds                  /J          /J       0       /}/}      /J,, r?. /}            /}         0          0      /}/}       /J/J     ;7_,!)   tJ      t:J           0 th~ 0.0 t.JtJ                 I              t?         I .J'.J'          0.0       5',g
    s-ci-. Dus~ ··~          0          /}        tJ     /J /}     rJ.IJ /}/}             0           0          0      IJ.0      tJ.iJ 0.0          tJ       /             I /{/1 f. I    ~I              /J             /J         t'J     0.0      0.0         ().0
    6-lnsaffic.'9111.         I         tJ         I Jt2tJ        ao JOO                   .2,        t:J        2  11.t '1,/J IK'.2                 /]       /]           0 17.(l /).tJ /J,/1             J'             0          3      J/,5' o.o 11.5
                                                          ,,,,                                                                                                                   ,,,_,, /7,/J [/,1.t)
I   ·-                                                                                                           0   tl.iJ /}/} tJ. tJ                                                                     I                                 5'-3 PO ?.g
    7-Psydrolo&ical           ,J        I}         tJ      (2/J O.tJ                       /)         /J                                             /)      /)            t:)                                            0          I
                                  ,    {/          I 1tltJ tJ. tJ //JO                    ."l        0           3  iU O,t) 'JU                       /?      tJ           z /~t tJ.tJ vu                 q               /)         9      Nt.        d_()     2L/,"
                                                                   a                                                                                                                                                                                  ao ..u
    ~Iller                    I         tJ         I 1/Jn     o 11/J IJ                   2,         tJ          ,c 1it ().tJ !U                      tJ
                                                                                                                                                             "             :.- /;(J '21.! 211              I              0          I       '?.K



I       Total                i'         2,       JtJ tao WO IJ(l/J.                       /0          I         //      9rJj (j I          ftJtJ.    s       c;;          II lf5'~ 5d1. / ~             Zr,t              z         ii% 'lt-1 '1.7 /LJP




I         Evaluation
    0-Batlooo                 ~
                                      Number


                                         ft,
                                               -"-"V

                           Certmn Ooobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Ooobtful Total ~ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certin Doubtfu Total Certain Ooobtful Total
                                                  y
                                                                 Per Cent


                                                          19..J I..< :f!,.f                   ,r.
                                                                                                      Pere..,
                                                                                                    Number


                                                                                                          /
                                                                                                                  /,, 11,e



                                                                                                                  7     ?/J1
                                                                                                                              NuntJer


                                                                                                                               J.;/ .2dl
                                                                                                                                                    PerC...I

                                                                                                                                                     //)
                                                                                                                                                                           J,, {/
                                                                                                                                                                           Number

                                                                                                                                                             /Q 33 ;d,,-J /tl.1, 11,.()
                                                                                                                                                                                                PerCalt


                                                                                                                                                                                                          /tJ         J::!,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,4p,-;t,tf;r


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    zz 149 11.? tti

I   l·A-ical
    2•Aircraft
    3-Liij,I 1'11010ffl.
    4-Bilds
                              /J
                              .J'
                              I}

                              rJ
                                         :2,
                                         it
                                         tJ
                                         t)
                                                 0
                                                 0
                                                  z a.o ~-5
                                                  '?      f.7 lf.3 29.tJ
                                                          ao o.o 17. tJ
                                                          tJ.O     0.0 11.0
                                                                                /...!,

                                                                                            /)

                                                                                            /J
                                                                                              I
                                                                                              5       4

                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                       ::1,


                                                                                                          //
                                                                                                                 3


                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                  9 111.
                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                        .J'.4' /4. q l;/,1, J'

                                                                                                                        t'-0
                                                                                                                             z 1.?.s .f/.17 2LJ 1¢' 3¢ /5'-/ IIJ.t 15.7
                                                                                                                                  IJ.0
                                                                                                                        t!>.o /2.0 0.0
                                                                                                                                            0.0
                                                                                                                                                        I


                                                                                                                                                        k
                                                                                                                                                       /)
                                                                                                                                                              ..? ¥ 17.f{ 2.5 .JI


                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                               I            7 t/. 5 tJ.1
                                                                                                                                                                            t)   Cl.O   t:)_(J
                                                                                                                                                                                                  5.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                 o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                          //}

                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                               I


                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              z 1.5' J.5' j'.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4' /'I I//. I/ £(7 20,I/

                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3 0.0 L'/,5 1/.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0      0.1)      t:!.O      o.o

I   5-Clouds. Oust. etc.
    6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
    7-Psychological
    &-Unknown
                             ~
                              I)


                              r'J
                              t,
                                        tJ
                                        /J
                                        0
                                        tJ
                                                 0

                                                 0
                                                          i'-0
                                                 'I- 129 o.o 12.,
                                                                   ().0


                                                          0.0 C).O t:l.O
                                                  <,; Jf.3 i'-0 /9.J
                                                                            ().(J


                                                                                           /}

                                                                                            '7
                                                                                              //
                                                                                              0
                                                                                                      cJ
                                                                                                      tJ
                                                                                                      tJ
                                                                                                      c?
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                 c:J
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                        O.o o.,:,
                                                                                                                        t:).0 0.0
                                                                                                                        /).L)

                                                                                                                  7 Pl.I cu, 21/.I
                                                                                                                                        o.o
                                                                                                                                  o. () o.o
                                                                                                                                            IJ.O      0
                                                                                                                                                     /J
                                                                                                                                                      2,.
                                                                                                                                                     7.J
                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                              .J'
                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                          /3'
                                                                                                                                                                                 17.0 O.()
                                                                                                                                                                                 u    0,0
                                                                                                                                                                  s 1.-5' ? . .J' fK .t.
                                                                                                                                                              0 33 115:.? o.o 15.IJ ;,f
                                                                                                                                                                                                 a.a
                                                                                                                                                                                                  9.f
                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                           f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     t? 00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        o.o tJ.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '3 ,d,< 0.0 // 5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3 f,t:J /.5' ¢5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          t? /ff ft. p t:J.0 l?t,. .9

I   ~lher


        Tot~               ZI
                             ,2,

                                      /0
                                        {}       z.   i..5 P.O L;;

                                                3/ l/417 .ft.1 'Joo,
                                                                                           .J'

                                                                                          zz
                                                                                                      0          3      J/J.1

                                                                                                      7 Z9 -1..;: 9 NI /PtJ.
                                                                                                                                  t:J.O 1/J.!         ..1     0   3 2-? 0.0 ?.1

                                                                                                                                                     97 '3S- I.JZ 11'./.~ 2t.~ /a:1.
                                                                                                                                                                                     2,                                   t? z 117 o.o .1'.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                          -st ZI r;,7 l..fl'.1 .JJ,.f /Otl.

I                                     Number
                                              <.,,-PT'6'.,t.,,,/?c.t!.
                                                         Per Cent                Number                Pere.,,,
                                                                                                               /},- rt:J,-f E£
                                                                                                                               Number                Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                         J///11.1£µ#£,tf!!.
                                                                                                                                                                             Number               Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              i)Geet<-?6'e,t>



I         Evaluation
    0-Balloon
    I-Astronomical
    2·Aifcraft
                           Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Ooubllul Total Certain Ooobllul Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu Total Certain Ooobtful Total




                              I
                               ?
                                  I
                                         .c
                                         I
                                       /2, 13'
                                                  g
                                                  z
                                                          f5 /5f 222
                                                         If 1.f
                                                          u .!3.J Jt.J
                                                                                .;:[,      0
                                                                                           J
                                                                                              ~


                                                                                                      5
                                                                                                       -1,
                                                                                                          4      b       ,,,,
                                                                                                                 z 0.0 1/.1 'f.1
                                                                                                                 i' II~ /9.2 !tJ.1
                                                                                                                                  /,;'J,I //,I       2
                                                                                                                                                      /}
                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                               t?
                                                                                                                                                                  17
                                                                                                                                                                  t7
                                                                                                                                                                           z 25t .at1 ~5:t ,2,
                                                                                                                                                                           I 11..?5 tl.O 11.1.5'
                                                                                                                                                                           0 tl.r:? t?.t? tJ.t:J
                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                           /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LI'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /I. I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5:i{;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ;:;:I, /1,.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     s.t IIZ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,;:i:, 21.2 2'1!l


I   3-Li&hl 1'111110111.
    4-Birds
    S-Cloud~ Dust. el~
                               17
                               /J
                               /}
                                        17 0
                                         I}
                                         r)       t:)
                                                      ao 0.0 o.o
                                                  0 t:l.O o.a 0.0
                                                      o.o ().O (!)_(l
                                                                                           0
                                                                                              t7
                                                                                              /J
                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                      tJ
                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                 t:J
                                                                                                                 Cl
                                                                                                                    f'-0 o.o o.o
                                                                                                                    o.o tJ.0 io.o
                                                                                                                    o.o 0.0 o.o
                                                                                                                                                      /?
                                                                                                                                                      I}
                                                                                                                                                        I


                                                                                                                                                               '.?,
                                                                                                                                                                   /}

                                                                                                                                                                  /}
                                                                                                                                                                           /
                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                              /~~ JJ,1? 11?.5

                                                                                                                                                                                 /J,/J ;1/J
                                                                                                                                                                           z tJ.O 25:J? 4C~
                                                                                                                                                                                                 tJ.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                           t7
                                                                                                                                                                                                           t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,::,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             o.o o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             O.tl t:).O 0-0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            o.o 0.0 o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Q.d



    6-lnsuffic.lnfo.           I        17        I       ..?! P.O .t-3                    I          0           I .U o.O f.K                         /)      0           0       ll.O n/J 1).0 2..                      17                 JI. I     0.0 ;I.I


I   7-Psychological
    11-Unlalo,.,
    9-0ther
                              /J
                            /1,,
                               /}
                                        0

                                        0
                                         tJ
                                                 0
                                                12 J_{j eu; JJ.J
                                                  0
                                                          ,?.0 o.() d.tl

                                                         /).0      t).O o.O
                                                                                           t?
                                                                                            %
                                                                                              I
                                                                                                      t:?
                                                                                                      /}
                                                                                                      t?
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                 ,ff" JI}$ t:l.O !Jo. f
                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                      0.0 .J.O (J.0

                                                                                                                       11 0.0 'l.!
                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                       ?
                                                                                                                                                       tJ
                                                                                                                                                                   /'}

                                                                                                                                                                   /J
                                                                                                                                                                  I}
                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                           z
                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                  t?tJ ao tUJ /}
                                                                                                                                                                                 'Jt;_I} tJ() 15,; /4
                                                                                                                                                                                 /J/1    /JO     oo        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ao o.o (J.t:)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            j'.J.3 o.o n.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IJ.O      o.a ac:i


I       Total              18' /8 36 St).{) l~o 1,,,,,_                                   IS         j/         Z6 51'1 412.3 //J/1                   t;;;    z            g     -'/,;:t? 15.tJ Jt)p.     le              6          /8     (,(,.1    ;'.J.f //7P.




I
I
I
I
I                                                                                                                                 177

I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                         rAtfLg                 11115
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                        -
                                                                          CnP                        _,                                r,/E.A"'-                                                         _u,47'</                             ·-
                                                                                                                            ,?C                                            S/-1' -7°',?
                                                  ILJ,t,   'AA,/                                                   ,t:",q          ..                                       MLJ,ei!,u                                               ,4,P,e✓L
                                                        Per Cent                                  Ninber                Per Cent                Number             Per Cent                Number                Per Cent



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
          Evaluation      Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tolal                    ertain Doubtful Tolal Certain OodJllul Total i;enain -lful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tola
    0-Ballooo                  I            I        z ?/ 7. I 142.                          ..I           /J         3 1:t.l       tU   ,,,,,               /              I         z         gg $:5' /t.~             /J         /7        CJ /J.O tJ.O ao
    1-AstlOlallical          ..1         (1          3.1/J/ tJ.0 2//I                         I            /J         I f l IJO f.l                      I              /7         I            JU CJ.I) $:?             fl,            /7    z 15.4 t:J.CJ /5".f'
    2-Aircraft               ?              I       3 ldJ 7.1 21¥'                          /J             :2,        z 11.tl 1R_?. l ( f                /             2,          3           . 9: 3 l~-1 5P            I,(        0         4    .f/).8 O.cJ j'/).    t
                                                           ao o.O 0,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
    3-Li&htPhenom.           /J                     0                                        /J            /)          0       17./J    /},7     lltl                  /'J         0             0.0 d.O 0,0             ,?                   0    t:l,t)  tJ.O Oc>
                                         0                                                                                                              /7                                                                          /J




        _
    4-Birds                  tJ          t)         0      0,0 ao tJ.0                       /)           t?          0        tJ.tl 11,/J IJ,/J        t?             ,?          0            O.tl t:J.O P.0          0           t)        0     CJ,0 0.0 ao
5-Clouds, Dus~ et~           tl          tJ         0      (),0 (1,0             ao          /J           /J          0        /1/J /JO /} /J           CJ             /)          0           cJ./)    t?.t!J &,t.     /)          0         0    t:J.t'J (P,(1 t:1.0
    6-lnsulfi~ lnl>.        (1           tJ         0      oo            ().O (),0          (1            /J          0        tl.O 116 /},IJ           /7             /7          0 0.0 ae- (7,fJ                       I          /J        /    :t7 CJ,() '/.?
    .                                    ,,,
    7-Psydlolo~cal


    !l.()tlle,              I
                             d
                                /
                                         /J
                                         /J
                                                     I
                                                    Lf.
                                                     I
                                                            ?;/
                                                           2it o.o 1/'.t
                                                            ?.I (1.0 ?.I
                                                                          0,0     11         /)

                                                                                            :t
                                                                                            ..J'
                                                                                                          /J
                                                                                                          /J
                                                                                                           ,,,
                                                                                                                       0

                                                                                                                       .-::/
                                                                                                                               /J,0 (),/1
                                                                                                                      z 1<>1 11.tJ li:2
                                                                                                                               ,,,,,~ '7/1 21.f
                                                                                                                                                 /JO    /)
                                                                                                                                                        ,,
                                                                                                                                                        /J
                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                       t)
                                                                                                                                                                       /
                                                                                                                                                                                   0 a.o 0,0 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                   5 4/.5' o.o I//.~
                                                                                                                                                                                   / 0,CJ ff.3 x'.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,:,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0    o.o      ao t:J.tl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              G 1/U. 0,0 4t,2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0 ().0 Ot:J O.t:J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
I        Total            IZ            z          N l.15-7 IL./.l /CJa                     9             z           II 11.f ,.,t /PP.                 8              If         /,2 It.a B ..7 I/a:!                  /.%         0        15. /t)t).P tJ,O /PP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
           Evaluation
    0-Balloon                   "I
                                  Number
                                         llf"71/


                                          2,
                                                         Per Cent


                                                                          /.,,
                                                                                 Number

                                                                                 '.1~/}
                                                                                         hl/11£
                                                                                                    PerCmt                  NwJIJer
                                                                                                                                        h,,:,u
                                                                                                                                                  Per Cent
                          Certain lloobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain -tful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certin Doubtfu Total Certain Dlllbtful Total
                                                     92,/;                                    ,,,,             ?      /0 If.I           fl'/     21.0   t!Q
                                                                                                                                                                             L/,1✓-.1.S"r
                                                                                                                                                                         Nullber


                                                                                                                                                                       /&- 36 ~(ltl /(ltJ 2n,.
                                                                                                                                                                                              Per Cent

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /'?         /j       30    ;f,; ;t/,9 31/,t/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
    l·Astronolllical
    !-Aircraft
    3-liflll'llenom,
    4-Birds
                             .fl_


                             J
                              'l

                                /1
                                          I

                                         /?
                                         0
                                            2,
                                                    3
                                                    0
                                                     3
                                                     s
                                                            £.9 ?4 ltl..1
                                                           lt?..J ;,,:f 11.t
                                                           ICJ.!
                                                            ao
                                                                (),0 /12 f
                                                                P.0 ao
                                                                                             ?

                                                                                             ~

                                                                                             /
                                                                                              /7
                                                                                                          /'J
                                                                                                           f
                                                                                                          ,:J
                                                                                                           /7
                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                       ;z ;,,/ ao 5,II
                                                                                                                       ¥ I.H ii 2/.I,
                                                                                                                               .2.1 ao ,t,;1
                                                                                                                            o.O o.o ,n
                                                                                                                               0,0
                                                                                                                                                        /£,

                                                                                                                                                         7
                                                                                                                                                                 ,,,    ,:,I //


                                                                                                                                                                        2,
                                                                                                                                                                           fl
                                                                                                                                                                                <1 J..J ti.I
                                                                                                                                                                                  Z',I. If..!

                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                      s
                                                                                                                                                                                                         t.1 ?fl/,
                                                                                                                                                                                               :1.5 1.1 Q'.t
                                                                                                                                                                                               tf./1 0.0 d.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ff
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         £.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         v
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /7 l. 9 Ith !?.5

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    f.t ?.J 1/5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               'I- d t, ao I/~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ao o.o oO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                        17                                                          0
    5-Cloud~ Dus~ el~
    6-lnsuffic. tnro.
    7-Psycholo1ical
                             .J'
                                /



                                17
                                         /}

                                         tl
                                         17
                                                    I
                                                    3
                                                    0
                                                            :tu 0,0 .?¢
                                                           /(l.J CJ.0 ,n,.J
                                                            tf,0        t?.0      ao
                                                                                             /)

                                                                                             _g
                                                                                             g'
                                                                                                          ,?
                                                                                                          /7
                                                                                                          17
                                                                                                                      /) ao o.o t:J.O
                                                                                                                      3 V
                                                                                                                                      /7
                                                                                                                            t,.O ( / lh
                                                                                                                       « !IP.11' o.a 1//l.i /
                                                                                                                                                                        Cl
                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                        ,?
                                                                                                                                                                                  a o.o o.O ,t/,0
                                                                                                                                                                                 16
                                                                                                                                                                                  /
                                                                                                                                                                                               11..J t).0 l?..1
                                                                                                                                                                                               /] ~     t:J.O tJ.f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Cl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,?       z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I ao /,/ II
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6    £.'I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2-f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            t:J,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            o.o ?.f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /. 9    I
11-IJnknoMI                  t!          /)         z      t.9 t:J,11 /.,9                   q            t)           9 ?,/J ao !241 2£                               C?         Z,2          l.i'.3   a£) 11'.f                   C? IZ J.f.i             {J.tJ   I.J.X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .,
!I-OIiier


         Total            z:c
                             /           £,         3      .u' £.9 IIJ.1
                                         7 Z9 11"..;:9 .2,/./ /RP.                         31
                                                                                             /J           t?

                                                                                                          la
                                                                                                                      CJ       C,,() (},'1


                                                                                                                     37 ;rn /1,,,:/,, I/II),
                                                                                                                                                 ao      d              /          s 11 IJ.f

                                                                                                                                                        ?3 Z7 /ZO 1"1G 22.5 Ida .s-., Ztl '87 l/41.f 112 /{JI).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /f.l    d          /     4t                /,/     5.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                  Number
                                                SEr        -
                                                        Percent
                                                                        A,:-


                                                                                Number             Per Cent
                                                                                                                   /J-'T""'Ee
                                                                                                                           NullEer               Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                                                                                                ,v,,,.ve.-.,,,6£
                                                                                                                                                                                              Per Cail
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        L>c LG,._,,,,,cc.,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
           Evaluation
    0-Balloon
    l•Astrono111ical
    2·Airaaft
                          Certain OoubtfuI Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain -tful Total Certain Oooblful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Ooubtfu Total Certain Doubtful Tota
                             .J'
                                /J
                                    I
                                         2-
                                         fl..

                                            Ji'
                                                    s
                                                     ,2
                                                    '1
                                                           ,,,,_
                                                            /J,/J
                                                                   /)
                                                                          ,:., '? /1,,-7
                                                                   1,,.7 ,:..1
                                                            :t :( ,!t,'1 :?/I~
                                                                                             /}

                                                                                              I
                                                                                              I
                                                                                                          L
                                                                                                          2,
                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                                      G /},/J <'l)_t) 2,,_,,,
                                                                                                                      3 5'.t) //J.t) /5,t)
                                                                                                                      3 5:tJ ,t).0 /C,/J
                                                                                                                                                         .2.
                                                                                                                                                         /J
                                                                                                                                                             ?             #'
                                                                                                                                                                           ;'
                                                                                                                                                                           1
                                                                                                                                                                                      ' ~1
                                                                                                                                                                                   s r.t /f. IJ 217
                                                                                                                                                                                   3
                                                                                                                                                                                                        IV/ l.?i,,./

                                                                                                                                                                                               0.0 /.!.CJ f.:?r.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1?.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /     3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              c; -?/J,/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ff.II

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ✓,p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4.IJ 11'.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            E/,t) 2'10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ~/J 12-d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
    3-Light Phenom.
    4-Birds
    5-Cloll'I~ Ou~ el~
                                 /)

                                 n
                                    /
                                          /)

                                          /J
                                            I       z
                                                    0
                                                           %..3
                                                              ,?. /) /J,n
                                                           P.tl
                                                    0 I/J,/J t?,I} t!J,O
                                                                         J',3      I.I.      /
                                                                                             /J
                                                                                             /J
                                                                                                          :2,
                                                                                                           /
                                                                                                          tJ
                                                                                                                      :?


                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                               ,;,() 1(),t) /5:I)
                                                                                                                               /)/)

                                                                                                                               /)./)
                                                                                                                                        5',/J 5.tl
                                                                                                                                        17.() tl. CJ
                                                                                                                                                             /
                                                                                                                                                             /J

                                                                                                                                                             /J
                                                                                                                                                                        /)

                                                                                                                                                                        CJ
                                                                                                                                                                           /
                                                                                                                                                                                   (J
                                                                                                                                                                                      z
                                                                                                                                                                                      (J
                                                                                                                                                                                               4,J', d.J ft,
                                                                                                                                                                                               d.0      t:},tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                ao t:J.O C).0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,?,O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Cl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Cl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4.t:J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,,?,tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   t1tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            t1tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /J,/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,j.p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /J.C?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,:J,t:J a tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
    6-lnsuffic.lnfo.             1        /J         3 ,,,_,, /J./J /{J.t)                       /        /J          /        ~tl /1,0 ;,.CJ                /          /J            I    !   4. .1 (J.O l.d.J          2-         Cl        z    R.tJ     tJ,p    t.o
    7-Psychoh>e[cal
    8-Unkncn11
9-0ltler
                                /J
                                7
                                /
                                         (1
                                         t?
                                         I         z
                                                    0
                                                    7
                                                           t:?.0
                                                           ?,f..1
                                                           .i',$
                                                                         /),t)
                                                                         /J,/J
                                                                                  t),O
                                                                                 ,2,'J
                                                                         .?..! L.t
                                                                                             0
                                                                                             .1
                                                                                             /7
                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                          /J
                                                                                                                      3
                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                       0       ,?/l /7, () 11. tJ

                                                                                                                               /S:t) I},() /!,.17
                                                                                                                               /J/,     /J. tJ la.o
                                                                                                                                                         I?
                                                                                                                                                         £
                                                                                                                                                         /J
                                                                                                                                                                       /J

                                                                                                                                                                        /)
                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                   i;;, ?/.,/
                                                                                                                                                                                   0 ao
                                                                                                                                                                                               t:1.0 cJ,O ao
                                                                                                                                                                                                        o.o 2t.l ¥
                                                                                                                                                                                                        ao (J.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /


                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ¢tJ

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .t/,/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /l,tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              g 12.d tl.tl .12.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /7,/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    q,17

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    L/ ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
        Total             /t;;;         /If 30 £1'.! UL..7 /(Jn,                            7         /3            zo K,t) ~,:;,;; 100.                IZ             II         Z3 '>:2 2 4'·U la:'. ZI                           ~        ZS l.r✓.o IL., /J      ln/1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                   178
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I:
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
                                                                                                                                                                    J,,,v
I
                                                      M~'c/                                                   lu11,,£                                                                                                ,4176 tf.S'-7'
                                         Number                         Per Cent Number                PerCmt                                            Nuriler               Per Cent                Number                        PerCmt
         Enluation         Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total                            ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu          Total Certain Doubtful Total
    0-Balloon                 iJ               IJ       Cl    /J b       /2 IJ LIJIJ         "f     ~          9 ! 16:tJ /£/(} 14"<.p /$                     /,I //,, If.& I.I 25:.1                /.          ?        9     ;,;:8 '1 ()        ,,. ,,
    l·Astmnomical                                        I               ('f,j' :t:tj'      ·c-                                                                                                     ..,,
I
                              /J                /             /J /J                                 /)         5125.'P 17.IJ 2!>.t?    K                     41 Jt 12-1 t.J /9.tJ                              ,,:      If 1% ti /5~ .1.t.'.2
    2-Airmft                  /1               /J       0     ,,   /)
                                                                          /J,.IJ /J /)       '7,    /J         :t ltl.o /1 /J llt:J.& ..?                    ,(/       7     4'.t t,.3 11 J         '2,        I        .3 5'. ..! 2.t ,, q
    3-Liafll Phenom.          ,.,              /1       /1    /7 J'.      /J,t:, 1/J. /}     /J     0         C)        t?,t)     /J.O l/Jn         /        0         I     /./,   /J.O     /.6,   /)          /        I /J.n ?.I, 2.t.
    4-Binls                  I')               0        0     /I/)        /J,/J t?,/?        0      /J            t?.0 /20 l/1 t?
                                                                                                                  /)                                /J       Cl     0 ltl.O /J.IJ a tJ              /J         0         /J  17./? /1,17 I rl,n
                                                        I j'.J.J ✓.? n JU
I
    ~louds, Dus~ et~             I         IJ                                                       IJ        /] L1t7 /J,/'J /)/1                                           ; ,1,t? t:J.O t?.O
    6-lnsuffic.lnfo.          /1
                                           ,,,          Ci 1-'l/l        /J.O C).C)
                                                                                             /,
                                                                                             ,,,    /J         /1 /J /, -10 l/4,:7                 5
                                                                                                                                                    /J       /J
                                                                                                                                                             d
                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                    ff      ?9 t?. 0 7!
                                                                                                                                                                                                    /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                    /
                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,?

                                                                                                                                                                                                               CJ       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         tJ 10.0 /J./J /'J.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2.1, a.o L,I,
                                                                                                                                                                                                               a                         o.o
    7-Psydlolo~cal
    &-Unknown
                             /7
                             ,,,
                                           /'}

                                           /J
                                                       t? I ~/J
                                                       Cl 1.-,,., /U?               -
                                                                         /J. t) I /.1!?
                                                                       ,.,
                                                                                            Cl
                                                                                            .?
                                                                                                    a
                                                                                                    /J
                                                                                                               t? (J /} /,J /J 11?.CI
                                                                                                              J' /5:C)           /2/J    '5.tl
                                                                                                                                                   /
                                                                                                                                                   -~        0
                                                                                                                                                              /

                                                                                                                                                                   d
                                                                                                                                                                    ,z       I.I. I. t, J.Z
                                                                                                                                                                            1fft. O.Ci 2~/,
                                                                                                                                                                                                    '7.
                                                                                                                                                                                                    '7         Cl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2 5'..I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7' 1i',tl /J,r)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5'.J'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /I? LI



I                                          t?           I l~.J l?.O ,17.3                                     /                  ao G;(J                                                                                .z. ll?.'1
    9-0ther                   I                                                              /      0                   ,;_ t)                      <!'.    0          2, .fZ 0.0 .?.2              /J         2,                        5.5       5.5

        Total               :z             /            ? l~t, U...f lli/0.                 /(/    :Z        '7'(J l,-;-1/-      10.tJ l1r.Y.1    5t}      I..!    i..! 119.4' 20.t ;(JC)_ 25              IS          1 fl lt.S:-f j'./,Z /tit).


I                                        Numbef
                                                    ',£,R "$JA dt;JIR_
                                                                        Per Cent   Number
                                                                                                            /J..ro.,-,7
                                                                                                      Percent                 Number                Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                   ,.,- -
                                                                                                                                                                            Number
                                                                                                                                                                                    A-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /Jcee,..,,d&e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PerCmt
         Evaluation        Certain I Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain -tful Total Certain Doobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu


I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Total Certain Doubtful Total
    II-Balloon                   /)            /J,      £-1 ✓.?.CI (tJ              1.tJ     ~          /      ,I IVJ/. /(}./) I@,:;               /)         ~        /J /J,,,     d.tJ lai:7      /,l        /J        /J_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1?"'      ~11      CJ. cJ
    1-Asbonomical            .?                 I       ✓ 1u             / / (J    lt.tJ     I      /}         I I/A., t?.t? I 1/J"                 ?        ?,      ,5"1-?/J,/, /f.f l.f<'J         I         /        .t, .!.J. :l J'j'..1 / / /
    2-Aircraft               2-             ~- ef             f/',P       $(7 1t.tJ          /,     /J        ,:7 t:Ul ao lao                       I        2-     ...! t.7 /f.5 fft).p            /}         tJ        t7 I /J'1 /J_ /J ,.,,..,
                                                                         ,;. 0 "I.ti                                                                                                                                           -,, ,, ,, ,., cJ
I                                                                                                                      1/Jt? 1ao 1,-,,-,
    3-Liat,IPIIIIIOIII.          /,             /       I    ! /?cJ                          /,     /7         /}                                  /J        0         /}   Cl.CJ   /),/) /J,C}     /,J        /J        /J
    I-Birds                          /         J?       I     .11.cJ      ~o ~(l             I     I?          I /tl.(l           ,..,,., I/&.&    /J        CJ        I?    tl.O    /J,/J   0.0    I.?        t?        IJ    ,1_,,,    /J /)    /J /)
    5-Clouds, Oust. elc.          /7        /)          /J    /) /J      ,,, t?    /)/)      /7     /J         /)       1'7,n 0.0         ao        /]       /J        /J /) ~      I)_/)    /2(1   /J         tJ       /J     /) /J_    /J Cl    "'.Cl
    6-lnsuffic.lnfo.          z            /}           .t, ~tl /J. Cl ft?                   /J     /)        IJ 1/-10 /,1/}  0.0                   2.-      C)        ~    /f..7   tJ/} 1$.7       /.J        /J        0     /J./J     (J_/J    /J 11



I
    7-Psycholo&ical              /         /J           I 1/tJ /J.(J //.tJ                   /}     /J        t7 la 0 £.tJ tJ.O                     I        0         / ~-;' tJ.tJ 6-?             /,}        0        Cl     t}_/J     ,., /J   /'J.O
    8-Unkno•                  Q            /J           9 JttJ tJ.O J'?.O                    ?      ,?        J' i'IJ(l t2/J ft)./}                 2         0     .J' tao O,tJ 2at:J              17         cJ       /)     Cl.CJ O.o 00
    9-0ther                  /            /J            /     ,l,t) /J_/J           ,/,,2    /)     /          I /J./J 1a. t) /().0                /        C)       I 1,,1 tJ.O 1.7                 I         Cl        I     .ff.3     tJ.tl 55.S



I                                          t.                                                                                                     II        ef              1/.3 2~.1 l()(J         :t                 .ff t/,IJ J'.f...! /t),?.
       Total                /I.}                      ,:J,;- ;tlt}O      tltJ I/@.          ff     £,        /(}        j'(J.p 2tJ.tJ it:1a                         15                                     I




I
I
I
I
I                                                                                                                                179


I
                                                          I
                                                          I
                      r,Mt.£         (2,-C 'i(Gl(T(/1/G

                                                          I
       EnlaatiGII
  0-Balloon
• 1-Astmnomical
  2-Airaafl
                                                          I
 3-Liat,t Ptlenom.
 4-Birds
 S-Clouds, Dus~ etc.
  f>lnsuffic.lnfo.
                                                          I
  11-Unkno..
  9-0llltr
                                                          I
      Total

                                                          I
        Evaluation
  0-Balloon
                                                          I
  I-Astronomical


  3-Liat,tl'h......
  4-Birds
                                                          I
  6-lnsuffic.lnfa.
  7-PsydlDlogical
  II-Unknown
                                                          I
 9-0ther


      Total
                                                          I
                                                          I
        Evaluation
  0-Balioon
  1-Asbonolllical
  2-Aircraft
                                                          I
  3-Liat,ll'h"""'-
  4-Birds
  ~c, ..~,. 0us1, etc.
  6-lnsuffic. ...
                                                          I
  J.PsydlDlogical
  8-Unknown
  !I-DIiier
                                                          I
                                                          I
                                                          I
                                                          I
                                                          I
                                                          I
                               180                        I
                                                          I
I
I
I
         E..Ullion


I   0-Balloan
    l•AstlOIIOllliCII
    2-Aircraft



I
    Higt,t Phenom.
    4-Birds
    S-Clouds, Dus~ et~
    6-lnsuffl~ lnfD.



I
    l•Psycllolo&ical
    1-Unialolll
    Mlllllf




I       Tolll




I        Evaluation
    0-Bllloon



I   l•Aslnlnomical
    2•Airaall
    Higl11Ph"10ffl.
    4-Birds



I   S-Clouds, Dus~ et~
    6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
    l•Psychological
    8-Unkno•


I   Millier


        Total



I
I        Evaluation
    0-Balloon
    l·Astronomical
    2-Aircraft



I   Higl11Pl1aloll.
    4-Birds
    S-Clouds, Du~ et~
    6-lnsuffic.lnlo.



I   l•Psychological
    1-Unkno•
    ~ther




I       Total




I
I
I
I
I                        181

I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                      ,1119            EvALuAOL2AI                      ,7,c     t:7.({Jet!.r S/6N,..r.'-'z"'Af."'iGS"""--E-=;e...
                                                                                                                                               !R__.A:z.L..,_L--"~'=~-"t9,,',<,.,.:£'---""-"'v'--,,12""11,,,,'R..,,'A..,z-,'"'"' °'a,,wOL...,a"'1C""-,..s,.,1t,;,,.,ft'.CL,r-u-'='lllt,;
                                                         r,,:ie                  r.
                                                                      ,.. "A" ·H.;;              a~     ·/-"'.L                         .S/x           ..,...,,       -reJI/                     sEeCJ/1/tJS
                                     J,,,,v.    4,/                                         /'E ;7,RV."'°u                                 I A - ..,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /7,Ps>n
                             Number                Per Cent                           Number                           Percent                       Number                Percent                 Nu-                   Per Cent
     Evaluation      Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total          ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total                     ~ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tota
11-Ballooo
I-Astronomical
2-Airtraft
                        /)

                        tJ
                        LJ
                                tJ
                                I
                                 /
                                          /J /J./J /J,7 /J/J
                                          I /J/J 1£() 1_,;,r,
                                           I '?" ~!,.() 1GtJ
                                                                              tl
                                                                              /
                                                                             t?
                                                                                         LJ
                                                                                         t?
                                                                                            LJ         6'11.7/J
                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                      /1
                                                                                                                          /J/J
                                                                                                               '? /J //1,?I)
                                                                                                             I/VJ,
                                                                                                             ,.,,,.,
                                                                                                              11.0 t2tl
                                                                                                                                    tl.O          /)


                                                                                                                                                  tJ
                                                                                                                                                      /
                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                              /J
                                                                                                                                                              /J
                                                                                                                                                                         /)      /J_/J
                                                                                                                                                                         I 15:tJ ;t/J 15-0
                                                                                                                                                                         tJ 12d /J/J 1.2v
                                                                                                                                                                                           12/J ,?/1                 tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 t7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             tJ tJ.t? t!tJ tJ. tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            :z,. 25.o ,1r1 2G'.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            z 11.!, 12.G 1t>.P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                          tJ /J./J ;2tJ ,1,?                                         t? lt2t7 tJ.tJ tJ.t?                                                       /7.,:7 /]/} rJtJ                                            /1 tJ.,:7 ,:1.t? tJ.tJ

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
3-Li&IIIPhfflDll.       /J      /J                                           t?         ,:?                                                       tJ         tJ         /J                                            /J        C)
4--Birds                /J      /]        /J ,1 /J         // /J   /J/J      t?         /J           ,? t).LJ /J. tJ ,?/J                        /J          17        ,?       t?.t? JJ./J Cl.tJ                    t?          t7         0     /Jc? /70 ao
5-Clouds, Dus~ et~      17      t7       tJ ,1/J          JJ. t7 ,1tJ        /J          ,'7         C)       /]/]       /J.tl CJ.tJ             tJ          17         /J     tM ,1.,::J tJ./4                      /]          0          c1 tl. /J /1 '1 (?CJ
6-lnsuffi~ ~I>.         /       t7         I 1!.tJ OCJ 1G.tJ                 /1          CJ          /J      '?/J tJ.tJ             I')()        /]          /7         ,?     tl.tJ /J,J (l.(J                       /          0           I 112'.;, t:J.tJ /,J_ !,


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
7-Psydlololical        t?      CJ        /J tJ.CJ ,'717 /J.CJ                0          0             d Cltl             /?./J      L2/J         t?          C)         t?      tJ.O        t.:7.tJ    /J(J          /J         C7           ~   /J.t? .at? O.CJ
8--                    I       tJ         / Z5".tJ c?t? :25. ()              0          t?           ,?      tJ.tJ       /}/)       c:J,/J       ..1         ti         .J' 15tJ            lltl ,;,:-,-,            ?           0         ..J' .!1.5 t:J,:J .!15
!1-0thO'               tJ      t?        cJ /.?CJ at? O.Cl                   t?          tJ          ,?      ,1,-,       /J/J       Ll.t?         tl         /J         17      /7,/J       12tl at?                 t:1         t:1        /? t?.t? ,2,::7 Cit?


                                                                            -;
    Total              2',     ~         4 5CltJ ,C!,7 /0?.                             J'7          I      1/t'P.u      00 "c?CI.               ✓           t?        ~ /@t tl.cJ /al                              ~            I          B' $'7,;- ld-5 /t)t!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
     Ewaluation
0-Balloon                /
                             Number


                                 0
                                       ,v1,,,




                                           I l?.6
                                                   Pl!t'Cent


                                                            /7.tJ 11.5
                                                                           Number
                     Certain Ooubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                 /          0
                                                                                                       /,

                                                                                                 PerC01I
                                                                                                              ,&




                                                                                                         I 5:9 t?.tJ S:9
                                                                                                                                                       Nulltler              Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                                                                ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total certain Doubllu Total Certain Doubtful Tota
                                                                                                                                                  tl          0
                                                                                                                                                                      Jv£l/


                                                                                                                                                                          ,:J /J/J          ,ao ao                   /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PerCmt


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .J'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      d,u-/.S"7'"'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .5' t2t? 1/.'5 ;u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
I-Astronomic.al         ~        /J       t, ,;Ji:; /J     /J.t) 25:o        ..?         t               P Id~ .1S:J 5.f.9                            ~        ,(      ,,;- ;'.?.3 22.2 !>5.5                        f                ,f     L. /ff, /;:,,. L~.o
2•Aircraft               I       /        Z 12.'.5 11-!. ~,;.p               .J'         /)           S' /V.. atJ /-tt.                               ,I;"    :2.         '7 /A',;;; :(g 25. 9                       R           ~          !Cl SP.fl 17 _n_,;
3-light Phnm.            /J      /         /    £1.tJ /2. 5 It.ti              tJ           /          / 1/.J.tJ ~9 S:!                           tl           /7       t:J /7/J            ,?,? '/2      c7         /           0            I .s.J? t?.LJ ..?.f?
4-,Binfs                /J      /J        /J    ,?.()     ,,,,:J t?.t?        /1        t:1           12 ltJ. Cl t2tJ t2t:1                       t?          0         t:J ,20             ao ao                    tJ           tJ            /J ,,.,,.,     /J /J       /?.t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,,.,,,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
5-Cloud~ Dus~ et~       0       0         tJ t7.tJ cJ.£J t:J. t?              0          tJ           t? tJCJ tl. tJ ,?.(?                            /J       tJ        c7 ,,.,,,.,         ,?/1                    /J          ,?         /J      ,?,?       /.J,/J      a~
6-lnsuffic.lnfo.        2..     0         £ ft,_,? £2,:7 lzs.-o              !l..       t)            .t, 11.11" tJ.O //.f                            /      ,:?         I      17          /],?       5.7               /       /7             I ~.S £1tJ                  ?fi!
I-Psychological          t)     t?        /J    /]/)        /J/J I.a,::;,     /)         tJ           /J     t?t? ,:2/J !/7/]                     /J          /1         /;
                                                                                                                                                                                ,,.,,.,, '7/J do                     tl          tJ         /)       c:l/J ao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /J/J
8-Unknown               0       /)        0 tl.£J J2t? /J.O                   I         t)            / !>-! t?./7 ;.p                            j           tJ        .f //./ /2/7 //./                            .fl         0          4 ;5:p' t:J /J /5.4
9--0ther


    Tot~
                        /J


                        k
                               /)




                               1..
                                          t? /J. tl ao a tJ

                                          ff 11£"0 ?,:,CJ /t)/1
                                                                             ,?


                                                                            /cJ
                                                                                        0


                                                                                            '/
                                                                                                      tJ LJ(J at? t2L)

                                                                                                    /'7      !ill.i 4/.2.. /(),?.              If
                                                                                                                                                      I       tJ

                                                                                                                                                               i
                                                                                                                                                                        / 17 t?.c:J .5'.7

                                                                                                                                                                     ~'1 17'4.4 29,t,; /t?o.                       /2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /           tJ

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 {I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /       1~

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Lt!. 1;.~ t .?OS I/M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                tJ.O f. ll
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
     Evaluatioa
II-Balloon
I-Astronomical
2-Aircratt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
3-Li&IIIPh010III.
4--Birds


6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
7-Psycholotical
8-Unkno""
9-0ther
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
    Total

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                       182                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
I
I
I
I
          Edlaation
    0.11111111111
    1-Asllooolllical
    2-Aircrlft



I
    3-LiptP!Mmo.
    4-Birds


    6-lnsuffic Info.



I   7-PsydlDlopcal
    8-Unlolo•




I        Total




I         Evaluation
    0-Balloon
                                 Number
                                         AAA<

                                                       Per Cent                Number
                                                                                               Jv,
                                                                                              'E
                                                                                                     Per Cail                Nurlmer
                                                                                                                                      Jo£-</
                                                                                                                                                   Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                ,4t,,G ~<r
                                                                                                                                                                           Number               PerC81t
                         Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doublful Tolal Certain Doobtful Tolal Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu Total Certain Doubtful Total

                           I          t?      I ~ ! tl.CJ          f{.J'        /         /,     I 5.9 l?.t:J 5,9                   f         :f'     t //t ~I U,                  ;J      I   I 17./J :f't1 f.Cl


I   1-Astronomical
    2-Aircraft
    3-Utht Phenom.
    4-Birds
                           I

                           0
                            I

                               /}
                                      I}
                                      I
                                     /}

                                      I
                                              I   .< .! t?.t:J ff!
                                              ,? ;rt   {i:t I//. L
                                              Ol,?,-7 tJ.v 1011
                                              I tJt? f{J' gs
                                                                            5
                                                                           /}

                                                                            ;J
                                                                               I      ~
                                                                                     2.
                                                                                      /1

                                                                                      /J
                                                                                                J' §. 9 I i i 11?.'7
                                                                                                J' :!9.~ //.( ~-:Z
                                                                                                r7 tJ. t:J t:Jcl a~
                                                                                                t? I IJt:J 12,:? Ot)
                                                                                                                                    L
                                                                                                                                   Pl
                                                                                                                                    /,

                                                                                                                                    /}
                                                                                                                                           /
                                                                                                                                         /5 29 22t, I ?//t l~f

                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                           /J
                                                                                                                                             11 ~ 1 /.I. 1/.3

                                                                                                                                                     tJ lt1.t1 lt?o lo.'O
                                                                                                                                                     ,7 tlt? /7.t? l,?./7
                                                                                                                                                                                   /4
                                                                                                                                                                                   /4
                                                                                                                                                                                   /J
                                                                                                                                                                                   /7
                                                                                                                                                                                          .5 ,1 /~,? /!,./ :15.~

                                                                                                                                                                                           /
                                                                                                                                                                                          /J
                                                                                                                                                                                            t 9 /ft (;_/ :J'f j
                                                                                                                                                                                               I ;7 tJ   :f'/1 so
                                                                                                                                                                                              t-7 /} /} ;J_tJ t?t;J
                                                                                                                                                                                              t:J /J /J ,1 /} ,,,,,
I   S-Clouds, Dus~ elc
    6-lnsuffic. Info.
    7-Psychological
    &-Unknown
                           /)



                           /}

                           ~
                            ,;
                                      /}

                                     /}

                                     n
                                             /J tJ.Cl


                                             t?
                                             t,, /J. 7
                                                       IJ.t? 0. Cl
                                             d 5f.J /Jt? j.J.j
                                                  IM       ,'//J t//}
                                                          (J.,:J
                                                                           /}

                                                                           ..!
                                                                            /}

                                                                           .7
                                                                                     /7
                                                                                     0
                                                                                     0
                                                                                                   /J

                                                                                                   j
                                                                                                         /J./,    tl.cJ t?. ,j
                                                                                                      11.t. /h1 1:t t,
                                                                                                   /; t:Jt? /Jc? /}/}
                                                                                                .J' /'/.~ /2/) 11.t
                                                                                                                                   I}
                                                                                                                                    ?
                                                                                                                                    ;,
                                                                                                                                          t:J
                                                                                                                                          /}

                                                                                                                                          2,
                                                                                                                                                     0 tJt? t:20 14i:?
                                                                                                                                                     2., 1?. ,/J./J f.Z
                                                                                                                                                     5 '/.c 12. f't?
                                                                                                                                                    /2, /fLI ,?.,-7 llf.¢
                                                                                                                                                                                   t:J
                                                                                                                                                                                   .z
                                                                                                                                                                                   I}
                                                                                                                                                                                           t?
                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                           CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                   .t £/
                                                                                                                                                                                                   t? '1 /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                   q 121.J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IJ.O L./
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /J /}    ./1(7
                                     0                             /L.?              /)                                            ,2,    /)                                       9      c?                       "?-" h't

I   9-0the,


         Total
                           /



                          /{)
                                     /}      I    ~'f     /1t? i'.1

                                     :t ,z, 111( .1 /~.1 /PP.
                                                                           0


                                                                           1.1       q
                                                                                      /)



                                                                                               I? 11M
                                                                                                I
                                                                                                   C, ;J_/1       /Jt:J lb?a

                                                                                                                 zs.s /i?t?. 14/
                                                                                                                                    I     I}



                                                                                                                                         ?I
                                                                                                                                                      I     /1.    "2CJ /.t>,

                                                                                                                                                    t.1.. l,t,., f.J.9 l,?t;J.
                                                                                                                                                                                   /J


                                                                                                                                                                                  ~.!
                                                                                                                                                                                          0

                                                                                                                                                                                         IC/
                                                                                                                                                                                                   /)   /JC)       /}/}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tl.t:J

                                                                                                                                                                                                 .! .! ~f. 7 .5'0.S /Otl.


I                                Number
                                         Jel'rEH.#Eil!
                                                        Percent
                                                                                  //erLJdE,e.
                                                                                Number                PerCmt
                                                                                                                                    ,1/_,,p, "AAA',!;,e
                                                                                                                               Number                PerCenl
                                                                                                                                                                                1/Et!t: ,._,,,,t:,t/!..
                                                                                                                                                                             Number               PerCmt


I         Evaluation
    ~Balloon
    l•Astronomical
    2·Aircraft
                         Certain DOlrbtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tolal Certain Doobtful Total 1Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tola! Certain Doubtfu Total Certain Doubtful Total


                           £J
                           d
                               /?    ?,
                                     I
                                     J'
                                             t.lA,?
                                              I   120 ?I
                                                          /¢.J' 1¢.!

                                             7 H.t, .V.// .5iJt.
                                                                   71
                                                                            /J
                                                                            fl
                                                                                /
                                                                                     tl
                                                                                      /
                                                                                     ::z
                                                                                                tl I /J/J /J/J I 12c:,'
                                                                                                f 12-i II. I .1.f.f
                                                                                                .f II./ l?t.t In.I
                                                                                                                                    /)

                                                                                                                                   11
                                                                                                                                    ?
                                                                                                                                          /J
                                                                                                                                          £J
                                                                                                                                          /?
                                                                                                                                                     tl /)_,:J tl. t7 t2t1
                                                                                                                                                      fl   sa, ~CJ !,()_()
                                                                                                                                                      -? 1..-,-,,. /2 t7 !il2tl
                                                                                                                                                                                   /J

                                                                                                                                                                                   /
                                                                                                                                                                                   /J
                                                                                                                                                                                          ~

                                                                                                                                                                                           /J
                                                                                                                                                                                           :f'
                                                                                                                                                                                                   L. ,.,.,, 1-?-?.t, :!V
                                                                                                                                                                                                   I 1/.I 14tl 11.I
                                                                                                                                                                                                  .< /)/) f_t.J' g_n

I   3-Li&h!Ph010III.
    4-Birds
    S-Clouds, Du~ elc
                            0
                            C1
                               I}
                                     L)

                                      /)

                                      I
                                             0 I)/) tJo °,,}/)
                                             p /)/) /) /l tl. tJ
                                              I /Jtl ?I '1.I                ;J
                                                                                /,

                                                                                /l
                                                                                     t)
                                                                                      /}

                                                                                      I
                                                                                                I}

                                                                                                p
                                                                                                I
                                                                                                         /?/1
                                                                                                         /J/J -✓.2tJ
                                                                                                         /JIJ
                                                                                                                 tJ.tJ ao

                                                                                                                 ti. I
                                                                                                                         t?C'
                                                                                                                        I/. I
                                                                                                                                   17
                                                                                                                                   tl
                                                                                                                                   t:J
                                                                                                                                          /J
                                                                                                                                          /J
                                                                                                                                         /J
                                                                                                                                                      ,-7 1/J/J d.t:? ,:10
                                                                                                                                                     LJ    Ll/2 /:J.t:J /J.C)
                                                                                                                                                     t7 t2& t:Jtl /J/1
                                                                                                                                                                                   /J
                                                                                                                                                                                   tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                   ,7
                                                                                                                                                                                          /)

                                                                                                                                                                                          /J
                                                                                                                                                                                          ,-7
                                                                                                                                                                                                   /, • /J/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,:J
                                                                                                                                                                                                   /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                        17.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                        /J.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   40 I /1,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /J.t:J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /J_ CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /J /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,1 IJ
    6-lnsuffic.lnJo.           ?..   /}      ?,   l'/.J   /J/1     llJ'     /        /}            /     //./     /J_/J //. I      0     0           t) /J/J tJ.t:J t!O            tl     tJ      t7 1/1.0 IJ,/J            /),/)
                                                                                                                         ,,,,,.,                                                                        ,.,                 ,.,,,,
I   7-Psytholoaical
    II-Unknown
    9-0ther
                           /1

                           CJ
                               /     /)

                                     LJ
                                     /?
                                             I
                                             /)
                                                  11 /J,tJ
                                                  /JtJ tJ.tJ l.aO
                                             tJ /2()
                                                                   V

                                                        /1./l 11?.t?
                                                                            /J
                                                                            I
                                                                            /}
                                                                                     £)

                                                                                     tJ
                                                                                     0
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                   /
                                                                                                        4(7
                                                                                                        II I
                                                                                                tl t:Ul t?.t? tJtJ
                                                                                                                  /J()
                                                                                                                  /Ul //./
                                                                                                                                   I}

                                                                                                                                   tJ
                                                                                                                                   ,7
                                                                                                                                          t)
                                                                                                                                          I}

                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                      tJ th:? ;_J.tJ /J_/J
                                                                                                                                                      t7 (J.LJ tJ.tJ /J/J
                                                                                                                                                     /J /J.t? tl.tJ tJ.O
                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                   !I.
                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                         /}

                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                  /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                   2,, 22.2. /JIJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                    /   t/./
                                                                                                                                                                                                              /)   /JI)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /}/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            12.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I/./



I       Total              1         '7    ;,/ 5l).p 5"0, tl ttlO.         s         ✓         f        5"51, 41./¥ 1..,.,,.       ,;    tJ          fl' /(Jt!(J   flt) la?.       ✓     5"       9 q'q.¢' 5£".t. IOt!.




I
I
I
I
I                                                                                                              183

I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                               Number
                                            I
                                                           V

                                                     Percent
                                                                  ,e-o,e


                                                                             Number
                                                                                                                  ✓,,,,,-



                                                                                                         Ft= 'R,,,,~v'
                                                                                                   Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                                                   VEA,e,


                                                                                                                                                 Percent
                                                                                                                                                                  rH.,--,✓


                                                                                                                                                                    M"'Rt!N
                                                                                                                                                                         Number
                                                                                                                                                                                      -A•-          ~-


                                                                                                                                                                                               Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                              _, ~-,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           A~"IL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  r- ......At:7.A.;/'J,;"'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
     Evaluation        Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total ~ertain Doublful Tola! Certain Doubtful Total ,ertlin Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tola!
0-Ballaon
I-Astronomical
2-Aircraft                0
                             tJ
                             rJ
                                    L7
                                     (?

                                     {/
                                                 I?
                                                17
                                                 0
                                                       atJ
                                                       /}/}
                                                       tJ,/J
                                                                  /J/J /}t}
                                                                 /J,/J /J,1
                                                                  /J,t? ,?./J
                                                                                      a
                                                                                      17
                                                                                         /
                                                                                                   0


                                                                                                   ~
                                                                                                    /J     /}
                                                                                                              tl CM CUI tJ.O
                                                                                                                 CUJ t),0 ().(!)
                                                                                                              ? 2d.0           ~.o 60.0
                                                                                                                                                 /
                                                                                                                                                 I?

                                                                                                                                                 /
                                                                                                                                                             tl
                                                                                                                                                             I?
                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                           I /4.3 ,:;J,0 ';,/..3
                                                                                                                                                                       tJ tJ,()   cit? CU)
                                                                                                                                                                           I !ef.l o.o /1/,3
                                                                                                                                                                                                          17
                                                                                                                                                                                                          /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                             tl      /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       o.t!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       tJ,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ff.5 &'.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CJ.0 a.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    i'.3 i'.S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                     cu; 0.0 o.o                                                                                                                    ,:,.o tit'.?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
3-Light Phenom..          tJ         ;J         0       '? ✓J      /1/J    /').17        /J        cJ         0                                 /J           /J        t)     t;J.0 t).{)        tJ.O    /}         17       t)        (J, t:J
4--Birds                  ;J         /J         Cl     do         /J./J17tJ           17           ,7     /J          t).()    0.0 t!UJ         ..?          6        3      I✓.!.!     o.o 9"./.j       t:)        /J       tJ o.o                 CU} 0.0
S-Clouds, Dus~ etc.      tl          t?         0      /J/J       /JtJ Cc?            ,7        17         ,:J      t?.0 a.o (1.0               0            17        0      tJ.O cUJ t).o               /)         L7      CJ O,D                 o.o o.o
6-lnsuffic. tnfo.         0         tl          /J     17 /J      /J,? /JcJ           ,?         Cl        0        tUJ tJ.tJ tUJ               0        0             Cl     t).t) C).t} O.tJ            !?_       /}       z /L..1 C).0 IL7

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
1-PsydlDk>&ic:al          0         t:)         0      t20       tM /7.1'}           0          0          0        t)L}       0.0 ~t:)         /J       0            CJ atJ C/0 CJ.O                    t:?        0        t)       C). ()        CJ,0 LJ,(}
S.UMM..,                  I         0            I /PP.l acJ 1,,,,,,,                    /         /J      I       ZIJ.D       0.0 Zd.t          /       /7           I l/✓.J' ao 11¢'.r                 9'         /7       K' M.. 1 tJ.0 U.7
!I-Other                 /J         /J           0 /J.O tlr:J 00                     I          /J         I       :i!IJ.(J   {).tJ 20.0        /J        /            I      0.0 /Q../ /t/,J            tl         17       0         0.0          17.0 t:}.CJ

    Total                I          0               I IA?.I      /J.0 lt?tJ.         5         ?,         ~        (.ao ~.o ID(),
                                                                                                                                               "         /            7 ;~5.:1 /;/..f Vt7tJ              /0        z        IZ <?113 /t.7 I~

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
     Evaluation
0-Balloon                tl
                               Number
                                      Milt/


                                     tJ
                                                     Percent


                                                t) CU) ao                  ~o
                                                                             Number
                                                                                       /,, £

                       Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tolal Certain Doubtful Total Certain Ooubtfu Total Certain Doubtful Total

                                                                                      tl        LJ
                                                                                                   Per Cort

                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                           Nulltler
                                                                                                                                     f,,,t. v



                                                                                                                    tfJ.C, o.tJ t!).C}
                                                                                                                                                 Per Cent

                                                                                                                                                 f;'      2,           7
                                                                                                                                                                         Number
                                                                                                                                                                               4u6. ~sr


                                                                                                                                                                              I/ I 4(¢' 1,c,5
                                                                                                                                                                                              Per Corl

                                                                                                                                                                                                          /         ,/       s         f/          12.5 l/5.L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                               ~o
l·Astrooomical
2·Airaaft
3-Liat,l1'11010ffl.
4-Birds
                         t.
                          ~


                         ,?
                             /J

                                    0
                                     /,)



                                     ,?
                                       /}
                                                2 3.?.3 o.o 333
                                                z
                                                0
                                                c:>
                                                   3.7.3 d. 19 :?.7.3
                                                       ().0 t:J.&
                                                       (!).0      (J. 0
                                                                            (J,,:J
                                                                            (:?,£!
                                                                                     f


                                                                                     0
                                                                                      /,)



                                                                                      tl
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                ~

                                                                                                tl
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                          .5 ~5 .25'. tl ltf,;
                                                                                                          0 o.o t:7.0 ao
                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                    t},0



                                                                                                                   t).O
                                                                                                                                Cl.Ci



                                                                                                                               0.1!/    ao
                                                                                                                                                H
                                                                                                                                                 I

                                                                                                                                                 Cl
                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         /,?

                                                                                                                                                              /
                                                                                                                                                             t!?
                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                     zz 2t,? -??,:2. iq',O

                                                                                                                                                                       /
                                                                                                                                                                              ~.2.. CU) 2.:2,

                                                                                                                                                                      I o.o .2.:Z. ,2,:2,
                                                                                                                                                                              .2.2.. 0.0 2.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                                                                                                           ?

                                                                                                                                                                                                             17
                                                                                                                                                                                                             /}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .J' 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     :t

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    cJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S" 9. ✓ t, ..J' /5.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I lr,.c:>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ~✓



                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0 o.o ().0 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ~~

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ?I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /1"R



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .3'.I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
S.Clouds. Oust. etc.
6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
I-Psychological
8-Unknown
                         0
                         0
                          /J




                          2..
                                    ,J


                                    0
                                     0


                                    ,?
                                                t)
                                                tJ
                                                CJ
                                                       ,:,,0
                                                       0.0
                                                                 cJ.O ,:1,0
                                                                 o.o o.o
                                                       ao &J.0 (7.C
                                                z 33.'3 o.o ?.?.3
                                                                                     tJ
                                                                                     Cl
                                                                                     0
                                                                                      ?
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                tl
                                                                                                tl
                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                    cu:: tJ.t) c,tJ
                                                                                                                    ao ao tUJ
                                                                                                          0 0.0 o.o 0.0 17
                                                                                                          2 25:0 eJ.0 25-tJ /0
                                                                                                                                                LJ
                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                          ,?

                                                                                                                                                          t7
                                                                                                                                                         /J

                                                                                                                                                          tl
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                      3
                                                                                                                                                                               o.O o.t:> ao
                                                                                                                                                                              L.. 7 t:J.O L..7
                                                                                                                                                                      CJ c>:t d,O o.o
                                                                                                                                                                     /0 221- tl.0 ?2.1.
                                                                                                                                                                                                         /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                         41'
                                                                                                                                                                                                         2..
                                                                                                                                                                                                          9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    t:?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CJ CJ,0 o.tJ 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             <,l. 12.5 tJ.tl l:t.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             z L.5 CJ,0 tf,5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Cf .2i.l ().t:J 2i. I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                          ,,,
9-0tller


    Total
                         CJ


                         (o
                                    /J


                                    CJ
                                                0

                                                a,
                                                       Cl.CJ     t).(J


                                                      /()(J_o ?I,()
                                                                           ~o
                                                                           ltJd.
                                                                                     ,?



                                                                                     s
                                                                                                /

                                                                                              ..3'
                                                                                                          I c,.O N.5 11,,; tJ

                                                                                                          l? ~2.5 .1'7.5 /iJ(J. 3Z /.3' 4-S 7/.I 21'>
                                                                                                                                                   ,
                                                                                                                                                      lt)tJ.
                                                                                                                                                                      0 0.0 ,:,.0 o.o                     CJ

                                                                                                                                                                                                         e2 /0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0        CJ CJ.CJ 0.tJ acJ

                                                                                                                                                                                                                            32, d,7 .J'/..3 I/ti.a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                  Number
                                          S°£P-r1:.ua.,,-,-
                                                                Per Cent                      Number
                                                                                                        /JA7"~4&,>

                                                                                                                              PerCmt                   Nunt>er
                                                                                                                                                                    !.Vtl     -       A-A

                                                                                                                                                                                      Per Cent                    NumbeJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /JceEM,oc,e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PerCml
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
     Evaluation
0-Balloon
!-Astronomical
2-Aircraft
                       Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Ooublful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                          /J
                          11.
                          ?
                                     /
                                     I
                                     I
                                                (
                                                3
                                                       C),!J
                                                         77 1.1
                                                         17 .ts.I
                                                      1574
                                                 ¥- 21.I :t.7 Jtl.i
                                                                                      I
                                                                                      /}

                                                                                         I
                                                                                                t:?
                                                                                                   /)     0
                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                   ;ft),()
                                                                                                                     (J. t)
                                                                                                                               t!).O ZtJ.t
                                                                                                                               o.O ao
                                                                                                                   Zd.tJ d.0 201.,
                                                                                                                                               ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Ooubtfu

                                                                                                                                                CJ
                                                                                                                                                 .,,
                                                                                                                                                              c:J
                                                                                                                                                             2..
                                                                                                                                                                      CJ
                                                                                                                                                                      z
                                                                                                                                                                              ao        t:J.O
                                                                                                                                                                              o,t) 5().1?

                                                                                                                                                                      I 25.tJ ao 1'25.tJ f
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ao
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,c'/!
                                                                                                                                                                                                         /
                                                                                                                                                                                                          I          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             z f..3 ~5 Jl,.t,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2         3..3 f!.g
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ¥- J!,'.O .i'..1 E.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             II I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                0                                                /        LJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,,,
3-Liehl Pbenom.
4-Birds
S-Clouds, Oust, etc.
6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
                          /J
                          ~
                          /J
                             /
                                     1J
                                     /
                                    tl
                                    tl
                                                0 t}.0 o.r:J ,UJ
                                                 I tJ.t} 17 17
                                                tJ t).{? 0.C) o.o
                                                 I   17 t}.0 11
                                                                                     17


                                                                                     0
                                                                                      tl

                                                                                     ,?
                                                                                                /J
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                          CJ
                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                    ao
                                                                                                                    ao
                                                                                                                    C),C,
                                                                                                                    tJ.O
                                                                                                                               0.0 t!),C) CJ
                                                                                                                               tJ.0 ~t) tJ
                                                                                                                               ao d.0
                                                                                                                               CJ.(!J   ao
                                                                                                                                                t7
                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                         t7
                                                                                                                                                         /J
                                                                                                                                                         a
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                      CJ tf,0 O.{) o.o
                                                                                                                                                                      0 t), {} 0.t'.? t).tJ 0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                      /
                                                                                                                                                                              {J,0 0.0 t:J.6
                                                                                                                                                                             ,25:P 0.0 t!i.P
                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,?
                                                                                                                                                                                                         /]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /J


                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /}



                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Ci
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             t7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             C)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        {7.C)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0,0 C).0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            o.o o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (!).CJ 0,(J



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        o.o o.t:J o. o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
I-Psychological
&-Unknown
9-0ther                  0
                          /J
                          ?        0
                                   0
                                    ,?          0
                                                3
                                                t)
                                                       t).()     t)t)
                                                       2.1./ d.0 :2.J./
                                                      tJ.(!}     (l.p
                                                                           t:?.O

                                                                           t7. p
                                                                                     /]

                                                                                     .J'
                                                                                     CJ
                                                                                               Cl
                                                                                               tl
                                                                                               cJ
                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                          3
                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                    t:7.t)
                                                                                                                   ~t!UJ
                                                                                                                   t).t)
                                                                                                                               ,J.O ao
                                                                                                                               o.o ,,ao
                                                                                                                               t:J_t}   o.cJ
                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                tl
                                                                                                                                                /J
                                                                                                                                                         Cl

                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                          /]
                                                                                                                                                                     CJ
                                                                                                                                                                      CJ tUJ
                                                                                                                                                                      C)
                                                                                                                                                                              CU) t),{J

                                                                                                                                                                              tJ.(}
                                                                                                                                                                                        ~t) t},0
                                                                                                                                                                                       o.O ao
                                                                                                                                                                                                 tic9 t:?
                                                                                                                                                                                                         2.
                                                                                                                                                                                                         2..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Cl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       rJ.()         (J.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       //. 7 CJ,{';, ll..1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /1..7 tlCJ l~.'J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
    Total                7          I/          Jg    1,P.2, .Jp.f /PO,              s         0          s /i,Qt) (),0 /00.                   ·2       z             if f,/){) 5"t)t)           ;oa     9         3        /Z        '/<;,{)      15'.0 100.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                              184                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
I
I
I         Evaluation
                                   lmmber
                                           /,.             t/
                                                         Per Cent
                           Cer!Jin Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                          &n,e        ,,,.,,,,,,r/✓5




                                                                                            Number
                                                                                                      £°.&
                                                                                                             ,::,,:
                                                                                                              >;,,u>At/
                                                                                                                  PerCecit
                                                                                                                          ,.,£ "~-
                                                                                                                                     ,
                                                                                                                                               S.":T"</


                                                                                                                                           Number
                                                                                                                                                     AA~
                                                                                                                                                            p,-,,~
                                                                                                                                                             •LJ
                                                                                                                                                                        SEea,•


                                                                                                                                                                  Percent
                                                                                                                                                                                         ·~
                                                                                                                                                                                          Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                    -r,:;,     &H/-

                                                                                                                                                                                                              L),e,,,..,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ·- - -
                                                                                     ertain Doubtful Total Cellain Doulltful Total pertain Doulltful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ~




I    ~Balloon
     l•Astronamical
     2-Aircrlft
                              /
                              ~
                                  ?
                                       /)
                                           /


                                           /
                                                  fl. /,::/~ 1/tJ.tJ ttl.o
                                                  ~ /(1/J
                                                  __? ttJ.IJ
                                                                    ~(J tdtJ
                                                                   //)/)    k?.O
                                                                                       /
                                                                                       /1
                                                                                       /
                                                                                               t?
                                                                                                /
                                                                                               /J
                                                                                                          /llt!t' /1_d 1/t?t?
                                                                                                         I t?.d /,11_ t' l/11,0
                                                                                                         I 1,,,,,, 120 1/t).,?
                                                                                                                        ,,, ,, tJ. () ?
                                                                                                                                         /
                                                                                                                                         tJ
                                                                                                                                               /J
                                                                                                                                               /J
                                                                                                                                                11.
                                                                                                                                                           I'//./
                                                                                                                                                       tJ ,,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                       q nt 22.2. #~
                                                                                                                                                                     /7_0 I//./
                                                                                                                                                                      /JC) V,l,'
                                                                                                                                                                                              ~
                                                                                                                                                                                              /J
                                                                                                                                                                                              .,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                        t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                         /)

                                                                                                                                                                                                         ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1' 7.1 /J 0 7.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t? ,-?_tJ /JtJ ,1/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  'l l,,.L_9 7.7 J''/.1..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (J /J. tJ tJ. tJ ao
     3-LiptPh010m.                                (J      /1/J /J. ,, /1/J            /J       ,::,     0
                                                                                                                        ,,,,                                 /?tJ    /),-,      i/'J.O

I
                                       (J                                                                                                0      /J     0                                      /J         (J
     4-Birds
                              17
                              tJ       0          t?      ,1,?      ,,, /, /J.O       /J       /J
                                                                                                                /J./,
                                                                                                         ,,, 12,/l               ,?/)    /J    /J      0     t)./J   ,., ,,.,   ;>/7_         /          /)       / J.lf /J.O .!.i'
                                                                     /J /, ,o.,,;                                                                                                         tJ
     S-Clouds, Dus~ etc.      f)       t:J        0       17/l
                                                                     tJ.,:; 1/J.tl
                                                                                       /1      ~
                                                                                               ,,
                                                                                                         0     ().0     /J.,'}   t1t?    ,!J    /
                                                                                                                                                       ,,
                                                                                                                                                       I     cJ.t:7 //. / //./
                                                                                                                                                             /l_/J t:?.t? /!cJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                         0        tJ/J_/1 0.0 tJ.o
     6-lnsaffic.lnfo.
     7-Psydlolo&ical          ,,
                               /       cJ         /
                                                  ,,
                                                         1/J,/J
                                                         (l.,;;     /,1,'; ,,,_,,,
                                                                                      ~
                                                                                                         ,,, tP.£
                                                                                                         ~
                                                                                                                ,?/l
                                                                                                                        t).0 ~tJ
                                                                                                                                 ,,,.,, 00     t:J
                                                                                                                                                       t:J /J/J /J.n /1(?
                                                                                                                                                                                              f          /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .? //,5 /J ,-; /15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I f.Y cl.CJ 5'.Y

I
                                       /J                                              (J     /J                        /!,/J                  /J                                             /
     8-Unkno..                /       t:J             I /tJ.(l /J /) /(J.t;           .?       0        .J' .f'/)/J /J.t:J J'/J.£        2.    0       ~ ~2.2 t:l.tJ 22.z                 ?             tJ         9 .?¢~ /J.O J'f/.1,,
     ~ttie,                   /        /J             I ''? /. ,?.t:J //).cl           ~       /)       2. _2tJ_,; t?.,:J ?t1.P          /J     /      / "1/J 11. I //./                      /         /)        /   z ff /J. cl ,Zi?

                             r                                                                                                                 ¢'                                                      z.
I                                                /cl               ttJ.O /{J{).        9                                                               ? 5;,.t,. ~;,IQ /pp, 2q                                 2~ f.2-1 '71 /(l(J.
         Total                        2,                 (1/)I',                               I       /0 ftJ.tl 1/,:::1,:J IIJtJ.       5'




I          Evaluation
     0-Balloon



I
     I-Astronomical
     2-Airmll
     3-Li&hlPhOIOffl.
     4-Birds



I    6-lnsuffic.tnfo.
     7-Psyct,,logical
     8-Unknown



I    9--0l!ler


         Total




I
I
           Evalualioo
     ~Balloon
     l•Astronomical
     2·Aircratt



I    4-Birds


     6-lnsuffic. Into.



I    7-Psycllological
     8-UnknolOI
     9--0ther




 I       Total




 I
 I
 I
I
I                                                                                                                       185


I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                     17941-E


                              ltlmbef
                                                 AIR,,f

                                             JA,t,V.AA ✓/
                                                    PerC91I
                                                                        £VAL(L.I/U/JAI
                                                                        &.n#        M/JAI "H.J r.

                                                                                             Number
                                                                                                          t?F     ,2,:f..1£47
                                                                                                                  A&
                                                                                                    ? & 4 , , , , , , . (/

                                                                                                                PerC91t
                                                                                                                             ~'£'A ,I>
                                                                                                                                           /
                                                                                                                                               06/lrhVGS: EtK ,£LL VE,f.ff llt2tteAV-tJA/ ,;:¥ Sf6HT(IV~
                                                                                                                                                        S./A'


                                                                                                                                                       Number
                                                                                                                                                              ro 7."H.'/R r r/
                                                                                                                                                                       M.,,
                                                                                                                                                                               AA,A/.vr.-~ <

                                                                                                                                                                                   ~u
                                                                                                                                                                               Per Cent                  Nu-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,d,;,,:,/t.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
     Evaluation       Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total                ertain Doubtful Tola! Certain Doubtful Tolal                 erllin lloll>tful Total Certain lloulJllul Total Certain Doubllul Total Certain Doubtful Toi~
~Ballooa                     /           I          !l 'f.7 ?::t I.!.£/             £,          t?           1.. .!!it? IJ.t) .!5./)                 /           /        {!, //J_/1 //J/J .fl?/            ,(J      ,(J          /) /Jtl       /)/J    /J.tJ
1-Astmnomical           .f           0             _;, 2g./ /) t!) 51.1.I             I         /,J         I II~!> tl.tJ 11?.!i                   I         CJ          I    $_/, IJ.0 1/J.tJ             ~        t?            .t l/5q       17/J IS:~
2-Aircraft               .z              I         .J' 154' 7.1 25,/                 t1         ~           1.. 0.0 ?,C:/J Z>tl                    /         2-           ? 1/JIJ ~/J,~ ft!l'J              .(I     0            4' ~i          1717 3'/1.S'
Hi;,IPhlllOIII.
4-Birds
5-Clouds, Dus~ et~
6-lnsuffi~ Info.
                         /J
                         ,,
                         /7
                         t7
                                     12
                                      /]

                                     /7
                                     CJ
                                                   0 /J.,? /J.O tJ. C)
                                                   /J {?.t)
                                                   /)

                                                   /J
                                                        /J /}
                                                                 d.,? 1,-,,.,
                                                                 /J /J , ' } / )

                                                      C)t) a,,; 1/Ji:7              0
                                                                                     /7
                                                                                     /J
                                                                                     0
                                                                                                /)

                                                                                                ,?
                                                                                                ,7
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                             /)

                                                                                                             /J
                                                                                                            t'1
                                                                                                                  /7/} a/J l,?/7
                                                                                                                  tJ.,? ti/? /)/)
                                                                                                                  Clt?
                                                                                                            /.J ao t2t) OtJ
                                                                                                                           tJ.l'J /)/)
                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                 ,:J
                                                                                                                                                             17
                                                                                                                                                            t?
                                                                                                                                                             t1
                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                         /J
                                                                                                                                                                         /J t?,/J


                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                             /)
                                                                                                                                                                                   tJ.t) t?.O /J.O

                                                                                                                                                                                   11(}
                                                                                                                                                                                            11 tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                            /J,/)

                                                                                                                                                                                   ao C?/J tJ.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                    /J/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                    /J/}
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                            /)

                                                                                                                                                                                                            /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                            /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1717
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /JA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Li,:l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,;J/J /JO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                t?.Cl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /J.O / ) / }
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7.7 ,?n 7. ?'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /1,/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                      ,.,,..,
7-PsydDlolical
1-l)llmo•
9-0llle<
                        J
                          I

                             /
                                     CJ
                                      0
                                     tJ
                                                    I "7.7 0./J ?::t
                                                   ? 2£1 r?.0 U./
                                                   I '7. 7 /?. 0 ?.7
                                                                                    CJ
                                                                                    C)
                                                                                     ?
                                                                                                /7
                                                                                                /7
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                            /7
                                                                                                            /)
                                                                                                                  /J /J    /1/)

                                                                                                                  120 /}. /J /7.6
                                                                                                             ? ?'f6 "?,., n!i
                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                  .J'
                                                                                                                                                  IJ
                                                                                                                                                            I?
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                             /
                                                                                                                                                                         /7
                                                                                                                                                                        ...?
                                                                                                                                                                         /
                                                                                                                                                                                   -1,,
                                                                                                                                                                                   ?/J./1
                                                                                                                                                                                            ao ao
                                                                                                                                                                                            tJ.{) ft2t;
                                                                                                                                                                                   aCl ,,,_/J ,.,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                            /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                            ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                            17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I}

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,1/1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ~.2.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ~/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ao /l.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /)/J

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -1" 0./J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ~.t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                        ,.,, ~tl L/tJtJ VtJtl
    Total               II           '7,          I.J' I~~ /!;:,r/ la?.             6          2,           9' '1,t;'(/1 IP5.P w                 6          ✓                                              /.3      0          /.J' /a;l/J t?.o /at}.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
     Evaluation
~Balloon
                              Number
                                             M.t1
                                                  Percent                 Number                Per Cent

                                                                                                 2,
                                                                                                            J,, ,&
                                                                                                                        Nud)er                Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                        J,,t. </
                                                                                                                                                                      Number
                                                                                                                                                                                  ,.
                                                                                                                                                                                           PerCe>t
                      Certain Doubtful Total Ce~in Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Cerllin Doobtful Total Certain Doubllul Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu Total Certain Doubllul Total

                         '/           t,            11.?£.9 ?:7 'is~/,               ;/                      9 2/J.6 5.! 2t.~ 5/J                           / / ff, If.'& 1/J.S 2?.9                       /'/      ltJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4v'6 >.r:r


                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .f1 2/..! /2.5 J'J'.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
1-Asbunomical
2-Aircralt
3-Li&lilPhOIOII.
4-Birds
                          ?
                             ?
                             ?


                             /J
                                     I
                                     I
                                     ()
                                      /)
                                                   .?  77 fR' 11/...,.
                                                   <.I //.5 .?.f /5..!
                                                   .J' //.5 otJ 1/.5
                                                   tl 17.IJ 17. /} /1,?
                                                                                     1..
                                                                                     ¢
                                                                                     I
                                                                                                t)

                                                                                                .?
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                            !2. 5. 9 /}.JJ 59 5'
                                                                                                            1' I/.' fU 2t!~ /~
                                                                                                             I 2.9 IJ.I) 2.9 .1'
                                                                                                            /7 A/1 / ) , . , ,1/l tJ
                                                                                                                                                              4   9 1<17 .?.7 JU'
                                                                                                                                                              J1 2f /4.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                 ~

                                                                                                                                                                         tJ
                                                                                                                                                                              2/.5   ~s
                                                                                                                                                                             ,,, 2.f /.9 14.'7
                                                                                                                                                                                   /1,/J 1).0 100
                                                                                                                                                                                                            j'


                                                                                                                                                                                                            "   ?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      :2. 10 /tJ.tJ ~6" ,f?.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ltJ 16 7. !> 12.5 2tl(J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     t:1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .1 f..f ./}_/) f f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /J.o /JtJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /)/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                     /J         /]                                                            0                                             /J                  tJ
5-Clouds, Du~ etc.
6-lnsuffic. .-ito.
7-Psydloloaical
                         2.
                         /1
                             I       /J
                                     tl
                                     0
                                                   /
                                                   Z,
                                                        j.,f
                                                         7.7
                                                                 ,1/J
                                                                 .n/J

                                                   t1 ,1/J 00 12/J
                                                                          ~f
                                                                         ?.7
                                                                                     0
                                                                                     j'

                                                                                     ('/
                                                                                                 /7
                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                 tJ
                                                                                                            tJ /JO 0.1) /J.,?
                                                                                                            1, f>-9 t?/J 5.9 /.S-
                                                                                                            4" ~S' IJ.,O lf.K I
                                                                                                                                  /}                          /J         /7
                                                                                                                                                             CJ /5" F/.t /'].(J
                                                                                                                                                             l'7
                                                                                                                                                                                   /7/1


                                                                                                                                                                   I 0. 9 {).O tJ. 9
                                                                                                                                                                                            ,1/7 /JA
                                                                                                                                                                                                    v«o
                                                                                                                                                                                                            ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                            h
                                                                                                                                                                                                            !l.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,:7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /   IS /.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /J,/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            & 7..S- IJ.O 7.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tJ £ 2.5 l1cl 2.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
&.Unknolll               I           /)             I J'..i' 120 .?.fl               Q          /J          (j 2t.5 tJ.O 12t.5 /7                            tJ / :t ,;,:-, 9 ao 1,;;9                     I()          C) /t) 12.5 /JIJ /2.5
9-0tller


    T~
                         I

                       2()
                                     z
                                     ,t,
                                                   J'   ?.f      7-7 11/.5°

                                                  26 l7L.9 2.1.I /pa
                                                                                    /J


                                                                                   49
                                                                                                ,'7         /J    /!/;



                                                                                                ,< :-u Kt,.'l ,u.7 '1Pa
                                                                                                                           ao         /1_/]       d           /  s £7 IJ.9 d.t

                                                                                                                                                 i"I £~ I I/J'1' 1'5-~ 24.! la?.
                                                                                                                                                                                                            4
                                                                                                                                                                                                           ~L.      2✓
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I   5 5:tJ /.3 £.3

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A',')   7.A/J J'tJ.O    /~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                       '


                              Number
                                     5"£P1",!ii"-'A&'4
                                                    Per Cent                 Number
                                                                                                        /J,-,-,r; ,,,,,~
                                                                                                    Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                11/t:1,,."
                                                                                                                                                           Nud>er
                                                                                                                                                                                  L,

                                                                                                                                                                               Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                       d e,e
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        L}t;(!G ✓tA A Ei ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PerCe>t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
     Evaluation
~Balloon
1-AstJOnomical
2~Ai,craft
                      Certain Doubtful Tola! Certain Doubtful Total Certain lloll>tful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                         .7
                          17
                             I
                                      11,
                                      q'
                                         I         d 1.1.L. ✓,..,. 1/$'. I
                                                   11, /}.I} ~I 9. I
                                                   5" ✓.5 /ff. 2, 2.1.1
                                                                                      17
                                                                                         /

                                                                                         /
                                                                                                 'I.
                                                                                                    ~


                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                             L.
                                                                                                             .?
                                                                                                                 "l" J'f. J' .1.n
                                                                                                                 5.1. ti. I //..7
                                                                                                            .t, 5:1, 5.t II 1.
                                                                                                                                                 ertain Ooubllul Total Certain ·Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu Total Certain Doubllul Total
                                                                                                                                                   £
                                                                                                                                                   £.
                                                                                                                                                   CJ
                                                                                                                                                             .5
                                                                                                                                                             j
                                                                                                                                                                 f       5

                                                                                                                                                                         .?
                                                                                                                                                                                   9.5 /;/...! 2.1.S/
                                                                                                                                                                             ,;- ?.5' 14.J' :Jf.f
                                                                                                                                                                                /J.t:) 1,/.J /4.I
                                                                                                                                                                                                            .d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ~



                                                                                                                                                                                                                /    ?.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -< /1,.7 4..2. iM.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  :,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        11.s d, !l /~!,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4'.2- i'.3 1/?.G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
3-liihtPh-.
4-Binls
5-Clouds, Du~ d~
                         /,)

                         /J
                                 /

                                      v
                                      /J
                                             I     :2. ;,/5 d5 ?. tJ
                                                   0 IJ.L} tJ.t) /"JO
                                                   tl '!" -1,., 17.0
                                                                                     /J.
                                                                                     /7
                                                                                         I


                                                                                                Cl
                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                    /
                                                                                                            1'. ,;;-_1,_ 5." /1.t
                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                            ~
                                                                                                                /J.17 5-I, 5.1..
                                                                                                                  /?/1    ,.,.   /)   r]/)
                                                                                                                                                   LJ
                                                                                                                                                   ,0
                                                                                                                                                     I           I
                                                                                                                                                                 /,)
                                                                                                                                                                 /7
                                                                                                                                                                             ?.


                                                                                                                                                                             /J
                                                                                                                                                                                .t/.J< I/. If ft
                                                                                                                                                                             /) /7/J 120 /}/)
                                                                                                                                                                                   /}/)     /7/1    /J/7
                                                                                                                                                                                                            //
                                                                                                                                                                                                            tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     L?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /,)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,'7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I £/.2.. /J./} 4. t.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /J t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /{/I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /7/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /lt}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        c?./J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,.,,.,   I
6-lnsuffi~ Info.         4.          0             .t ~I         /)/)     fl         I          CJ           / 5".6 /J.IJ 5.,c,                        I      /7          I II/.;' ~/} //.f                 ,t,         tJ       2.     S'.3    /7/J    %.1


·~-
7-Psydlologicat


9-0tller
                        6
                         ,?



                         I
                                     Cl
                                     tJ
                                     Cl
                                                   cJ   ,.,,,,   .,,,,, -1,.,
                                                    /. 21. 3 t?./J 213
                                                   I 14(5 t?.0 ,r/.5
                                                                                     /)

                                                                                     .J
                                                                                     tl
                                                                                                Cl
                                                                                                tJ
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                            0 1ao /,//J /J./1
                                                                                                            .? 11/.. 7 0./1 /t,.7
                                                                                                            LJ ().,7 lltJ lltl
                                                                                                                                                   ,0
                                                                                                                                                   ,:-
                                                                                                                                                   17
                                                                                                                                                             /)

                                                                                                                                                             eJ
                                                                                                                                                              t)
                                                                                                                                                                         Cl CJ.cl C:J.t? 00
                                                                                                                                                                         s- 2U ,JtJ 21.f
                                                                                                                                                                         /) '1/J t2tJ tl.CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                            ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                            /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                /   /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  fl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ¢..2.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        J'.U
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /'2C1 «L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                t).O .n..s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4-2.. /.l. t:1 l«.z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
    Total               /U           $            -??   /.f.l. :~1..¢ ltltJ.        1'         //          If ~r., /./ I //1'1_                   //        ltl         4,/       52.4 l,d,;tt /CJ,?. :20           q' ~q' i'l.3 //..1 1/t:>P.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                          186
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
I
I
I                           U.41.€.                                                                                                                                                                                              t?r SC~t!£.Z:,j(LG




I
         EYlluation
    0-Ballaon
    11-Astn,nomiCII
    2•Aircraft



I   3-Li&ht Phenom.
    4·Birds
    5--Clouds, Dust, etc.
    6-1...ffic. lnlo.         tJ


I   7-Psycllolopcal
    I-Unknown
    9-0tlle,
                              tJ
                              0




I       Total                 :v         /                                                    2.        tJ




I         Evaluation
    0-Balloon
                                                   J(A.,,,,



                             Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Dwbtlul Total (;e,tain Ooubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Cenain Doubtfu

                               IJ
                                        Number


                                             IJ         0
                                                           Per Cent

                                                                 /J.n 0./) IJ.0
                                                                                   Number


                                                                                               £.
                                                                                                         Per Cent


                                                                                                         2-
                                                                                                                     Jt,t,F
                                                                                                                                 Nuni>er


                                                                                                                      I .!1.,; If.!, 5(7.p
                                                                                                                                                       Per Cent


                                                                                                                                                        '/       f'
                                                                                                                                                                       J / u {/
                                                                                                                                                                              NumbeJ


                                                                                                                                                                     // >✓.o fltl 22,C,             t,
                                                                                                                                                                                                              4P6urI


                                                                                                                                                                                                              ?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Total Certain Dwbtlul T~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9 /t,.? rl.l 2</.!

I    1-Astronoaical
     2·Airaaft
    Hi8'ttPtuma1.
    4-Birds
                               tJ

                               0
                                /J
                                             CJ


                                              0
                                                 /)
                                                        tJ
                                                        /J
                                                        /J
                                                                t?.0 0..0 lo.o
                                                                oO
                                                           /J.t) /J,/J 'O.o
                                                        tJ /}/J /J.O ao
                                                                              "-~    /1/J
                                                                                               ~
                                                                                               2.
                                                                                               /)
                                                                                                         IJ
                                                                                                         /)

                                                                                                         /J
                                                                                                                     ✓ 1!i.O /J.() 2S.tJ
                                                                                                                     ,t,, 1?,5" /J,/J /2.5
                                                                                                                     t?    0.0      /?/J   /J.t?
                                                                                                                                           ao
                                                                                                                                                       /,
                                                                                                                                                        ?
                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                //   ltJ /£.tJ Jf.tl ~tl
                                                                                                                                                                 4 I, 4tl ~tJ ;20
                                                                                                                                                                 /J    I fl.tl /J,/J !l.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                                                                     7


                                                                                                                                                                                                    /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                              £.
                                                                                                                                                                                                              /
                                                                                                                                                                                                               /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.? l&'.9 //,.2. .s,::/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       s 5:;/ 2. :1 ~I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I     ,I} /J   ?.7 2.1'
                               0             0                                                     (,   ,?           /J    ,"J/J    CJ.0                0       0     tJ /J,/J /J,tJ I,?.,?        t?         ,?           /J   4/J       /J/J /,?/J


I   S-Clouds. Oust, etc.
    6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
     7•Psychological
                               I
                               /J
                               0
                                             /}

                                             /1
                                             /J
                                                         I ="./; /10 S/J.P
                                                        t?  /J.O /?tJ /J.O
                                                                 ....,_,,,
                                                        ·" tl.tJ 0.0
                                                                 '10                 /}/J
                                                                                               tJ
                                                                                              (J

                                                                                              tJ
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                         tJ          tJ
                                                                                                                     v ao
                                                                                                                     /}
                                                                                                                           0.rJ     ",.,
                                                                                                                                    /J.O 0. tJ
                                                                                                                           ao ao 0. ()
                                                                                                                                           /,IC)        /)

                                                                                                                                                        4
                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                /J
                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                 /
                                                                                                                                                                      tJ /J.O /J.O /J.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                      ✓ ~o /? /J gt)
                                                                                                                                                                      t. f.tJ £0 dtJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                    /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                    /
                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.
                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /1   /) 0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        t. ,;:/ ~/J 5-9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /JtJ (}.;J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             :2.7 /J.IJ 7.7

    8-Unknown                  0             0         tJ            0.0                      /         0             / l.t.J' /J /J If,,.!            p/        tJ //1' ?ft) O.tJ PliJ             ,1,       0         /.. 11..1., /) /1 //, ..2


I   S-Otber


        Total
                                I

                              2,,        0
                                             0


                                                      2,
                                                        I       --~P tJ. tJ !>/J.O

                                                                //]/J,i       t?.0 /(70.
                                                                                               /


                                                                                             ;</
                                                                                                        0

                                                                                                        2,
                                                                                                                      I :£...J' tJ.0 It,.!

                                                                                                                    /I, l,J11, 112,6 ~P.
                                                                                                                                                       2.

                                                                                                                                                       ff
                                                                                                                                                                  0 ,t,, dt? 0. () ,/.tJ

                                                                                                                                                                If S-0
                                                                                                                                                                                                   t'7

                                                                                                                                                                              "fft? 1.(,.tJ /tJO. 2¢'
                                                                                                                                                                                                              2.        ?. ',?./J ,;-_;,/ 5.4


                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.? ?7 (,t/9 .J'S.I '"'"?



I                                    Numbef
                                             JEPre! ,,_,,.,~,,
                                                           Pe,Cem                  Nu•r                PerCmt
                                                                                                                 /,),.,.,,,,, ei.
                                                                                                                               Nuntier               Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                  A/(JV§ AAA'.&"#
                                                                                                                                                                             Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /.)eee~, ,,,,:,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Pe,Calt


I         Evaluatton
     0.Balloan
     !-Astronomical
                             Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Domtful Total Cenain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu
                                 /)

                                 _?
                                                 ~
                                                 I
                                                        2.

                                                        ✓ $. 7
                                                                 /J/J
                                                        d 11.f.tl ✓ .? ;~?
                                                                              lf.'1 %.1

                                                                             g 1' 117.' .q
                                                                                               .f
                                                                                                   I     tJ
                                                                                                             /        f' ftltJ ltJ. tJ ~ / .
                                                                                                                      I /tl.O
                                                                                                                      /J An
                                                                                                                                    /]/) //7_ C,
                                                                                                                                           ....,_,.,
                                                                                                                                                        /J
                                                                                                                                                        f
                                                                                                                                                                 t'7
                                                                                                                                                                 ~.      ,,
                                                                                                                                                                         cJ    ,7/7   /J/J /2/J
                                                                                                                                                                              l2.1.1 /.<.4/ ,%5
                                                                                                                                                                                77 tl./J 7.1'
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                    /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                              /
                                                                                                                                                                                                              t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Total Certain Dwbtlul T~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           tl tJ./J /J/7 ao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ~  J'.1.5 n.f LL.I..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,?.O ~n
     2-Aircraft                 $                ~                                             /,)       0                          /!/J                    /    /J      I                                             0        /J/J


I    Hightl'tl..,.,.
     4-Birds
    Hloud~ Dus~ etc.
                                0

                                0
                                    /

                                              0
                                                 I
                                                 cJ
                                                        tJ
                                                           /
                                                           I ¢..s
                                                                 ,7/J


                                                                 "!/-
                                                                             4.5' 4..1'
                                                                              An fl:.;>
                                                                             tJ.O O.tJ
                                                                                               0

                                                                                               tl
                                                                                                   /
                                                                                                         /J
                                                                                                         /J
                                                                                                        /)
                                                                                                                      L7
                                                                                                                      /
                                                                                                                     /7
                                                                                                                            /)/7

                                                                                                                           lt?.CI
                                                                                                                                  tJ./J /10
                                                                                                                                    ao  /0,t:J
                                                                                                                           ,?n t:J.O IJ.O
                                                                                                                                                        /J
                                                                                                                                                        /J
                                                                                                                                                        /J
                                                                                                                                                                 C1
                                                                                                                                                                 /J
                                                                                                                                                                 /J
                                                                                                                                                                         0    /J,/J /J./J /1/J
                                                                                                                                                                          /7 /] /1 /] /J /20
                                                                                                                                                                         ,? l,?.O /!/J IJ.cJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                    /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                    /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,?
                                                                                                                                                                                                               /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                              /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                              /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /J Cl.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       O.tl /.J.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /J /J /J. /J tJ.a

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                t2t:J CJ.0 tJtJ
     6-lnsuffic.lnfo.           2,..          Cl           2,    11,7         "?~    x'.7      /)       0            tJ ,?.(J ✓7_0         ao           ~        Cl      .t, l/5:¢ IJ.n /S:F.J     ;J         /J           /)   /J. /) /7 /J /J,,,

I    7-P,ydlololical
    S-Unlolo...
    9-0lher
                                ,,
                                I
                                 /           tJ

                                             0
                                              0
                                                           I    //.? /.J. r. ✓.r
                                                           7 J'tJ.~
                                                           I 11./.1
                                                                              /?/1
                                                                             tJ.O
                                                                                     ?/1/J
                                                                                     ,r/f
                                                                                               0
                                                                                               j'
                                                                                              /J
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                         /J          /J ,? /, /J,O 0.CJ
                                                                                                                     .? J'P.t t?.0 !?/J tl
                                                                                                                     I     17/J /d.0 /tJ.p
                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                       J'
                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                 ,?

                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                ,?
                                                                                                                                                                         .? 2.7./ LJ.O '27.I
                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                          / 7.'1 IJ./J 7.-;?

                                                                                                                                                                             '7'7 tJ./J -7.'7
                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    /
                                                                                                                                                                                                          t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                              rJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                              /]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /J/)      IJ.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.0 /J.t? Cl.CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                u.~ t?/J J'.f.J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CJ.tJ




I       Total                 /7             ,:.      4 , 1719               2~./ lt't?.      g-        2.,         /(?    ~O.t :tatJ //J{),           //       ~       IJ' ~.;(-✓~ /!,,,/ /t)tl   2.,    /            f        /J.'1'    f5.f /a,.




I
I
I
I
I                                                                                                                              187

I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                          0/iLE             1112£                  E/(19U/,£r//?/Z/ <?E O,fJE(!r .S/6/(T//I/GS
                                                                   r,2It:         1W.,:::l ,rar
                                                                                                                                                                Ec?~ /ILi
                                                                                                                                                               r,,,;7,q :r.//.,.,,/
                                                                                                                                                                                     f'EARS b
                                                                                                                                                                                         ,!//Jr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Que,,9770/1/ t?E f/G67(,Y6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S7/J re'D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -
                                                                                                         A&-        VE .d;7
                                                                                                                                     ✓

                                               jLJ •. ,,ip <I                                          !=1= I ~t/Al?I/                                             MA,:et-(                                          llf'IW.
                                 Mimbel                PerCl!llt               Number                PerC"1t                                             Number                Per Cent                                      Per Cent



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
         Enluation         Cemin Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total ~ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total                           c:;ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
    0.Ballooo                _,J           /)      0     /l.O /J,/J /J.O              J7        0         ~    II.I /J./J If. I                    ,?      0         J' f'. 6 IJ.O fl6                       /            I     ~ ~-'1          f1       ![ //
    l•Astmnomical             6           r       ,; l?'?'.1 ?1.1 1r,it7              Q.       6           /1 ??.2 J'.1.5 55:G                     7       r         ,~ Ptl.v 1,/ .J' ft/.1               ,:.          ~       % /1,.2. ~d 2./,l
    2-Aircrafl                .2          0        2- f. I      /l.O        fl        2           I       .J' //.I 5.1, :;~. 7                    .J'     ..Y        I, ff. 6 Irt. l1'Z                                        t,     /1,.2, /J.tJ /,f,,2,
                                                                                                                                                                                                         /4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,,,., tJ.O
                                                                                                           17 n.n /J. /) "1/J                                                                                                  n

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
    3-LiaM Phenom.            /}          /)       0 11?.t)      ,?./J /2 0           /}        /)                                                /}       /)        /)     n n     /), / )   /J,0       /)                           /J,/J
    4--Birds                  /)        n          /J     /J.O /},tJ tJ.O                 /.    n         17 /J,/) /J, /) /J,/J                   {)      /J        /J     /}/)     /},/)     /},/)       I           tJ        I     ,2.1     /J,/}     ,2.7
    ~Clouds, Dus~ etc.       0                     0     /}_ r: /J. /J I/J,0                              0 /J./1 /1, /}             ,..,,.,               ,.,             /J./7 /} /J /J, /J                         .n   17 /J,/? /J./J /J./?
    6-lnsuffic.lnlo.         _,,          /J

                                           /)     5' 11.-1       /), /) 1?1',1
                                                                                      tJ
                                                                                       I
                                                                                               /J

                                                                                                /J         I 5:6 /J.O S:I,
                                                                                                                                                  /)

                                                                                                                                                 ,.,,      /}
                                                                                                                                                                     /]

                                                                                                                                                                    ,~ if.I, /J.O 1f.6                  /]
                                                                                                                                                                                                             /.i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /J IL. 3.tJ/ 1217 [i'.2.41
    7-PsydDlo&ical
    1-Um<no•
    9-0th..
                              u
                              2..
                              2..
                                       0
                                        /)



                                       /J         2
                                                   /]

                                                   :z
                                                         t).0 /J. /} IO.o
                                                         11/
                                                         9/ /J.O
                                                                tJ.o        fl
                                                                           91
                                                                                     2..
                                                                                     D
                                                                                      0

                                                                                               0
                                                                                                /J
                                                                                                i>
                                                                                                          () 0.6 tJ-0 o.o
                                                                                                          L. //, / /J./'> ,;. I
                                                                                                          /)    /J.t? /JO /J.O
                                                                                                                                                   /)

                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                  ()
                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                           tJ

                                                                                                                                                          .3
                                                                                                                                                                     /}    ().t) /)./) I». o
                                                                                                                                                                     I 2. 9 0.0 t.9
                                                                                                                                                                     g t?.tJ %. I,
                                                                                                                                                                                              '-'
                                                                                                                                                                                                         7
                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /}  I 2-7 /JO ,2.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '/ /R. 9 /J.O Ii' J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          t) CJ./] tJt) 0.0                       I
        Total              1'/        _,,,- :t:t 111' 1 :#-7 Voo                   I/          ,f        / f 1&11 .!R'- 9 /t17.                 ~¢       // .1'£ t.Jf.t fl.{! IOP-                      .N'          .J' !f '/ 91. f i'. I /a,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
         Evaluation
    0.Balloon
                                   Number
                           Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                              .z..        D
                                                MAo


                                                   2,
                                                         Per Cent


                                                         5: 9 l'J.tl 5.9
                                                                                 Number


                                                                                      ;:,       /}
                                                                                                         ,liJNI:
                                                                                                       PeJCenl


                                                                                                           6    /I:' ff    ,;?.(} g:i
                                                                                                                                                       Nulmer                PeJCent                 Number
                                                                                                                                                ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Ooubtfu
                                                                                                                                                 ~{)           4
                                                                                                                                                                   I, L:1



                                                                                                                                                                    ?'1 /2.J 5.(, l/1' ~                  6'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Au/.ulr


                                                                                                                                                                                                                     J'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Total Certain Doubtful Tot~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                fl    £..:1    4t? ta'?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
    l·Astronomical
    2-Aircnft
    3-Li&litl'II.....
    4-Birds
                             /t}


                              /)

                              n
                               j
                                           z J.2. 2f If 5. 9 155
                                           .y
                                           I
                                           I
                                               1 fl.I II g 1tl.(,
                                                   I ;1_17 29 2.9
                                                   I tl.1? -2. 9 '7.9
                                                                                      <Z
                                                                                      /)

                                                                                      D
                                                                                               ,,?



                                                                                                0
                                                                                               /J
                                                                                                                ?_/.
                                                                                                   5 1/P.,; .2.1.. 111. I
                                                                                                   /
                                                                                                          I

                                                                                                   0 IC./'.J /J,O lo.o
                                                                                                   0 /J./) /1./J Ir.lo
                                                                                                                           /J, tJ 2.(,             9
                                                                                                                                                 '7 /

                                                                                                                                                   J'
                                                                                                                                                   /
                                                                                                                                                           ~
                                                                                                                                                          /$

                                                                                                                                                           "'I 2,
                                                                                                                                                                   /~      .,:1,,




                                                                                                                                                                           tJ.t,
                                                                                                                                                                                    .?.7 't;, .1
                                                                                                                                                                   .15 /SO ?:¢ l?,?.u
                                                                                                                                                                     g /,9 /2/) ;.f
                                                                                                                                                                                     (fl.I,    /.:2
                                                                                                                                                                                                         .:2...


                                                                                                                                                                                                          .2.
                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,,       !,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '1'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                     t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1 2.1 ,{,. 7 U'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ?.J' 2/.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               II. ft.(}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                rt 2-f   2.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I) 0,/J l?,tJ 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /J./)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                   ,.,                                                                                                                                                    /)
    ~Cloud~ Dus~ et~
~c._lnfo.
7-Psychological
    8-Unknown
                              0
                              5
                               f)

                               6
                                        0



                                        0
                                          0
                                           C,
                                                     tJ.t? lao 0.0
                                                  t. /7.l /J.tJ rt;,:,
                                                  17 17.v /,}_/) IOtJ
                                                  s- /~'7   l).O lt/7
                                                                                      /)
                                                                                     ,~
                                                                                      L
                                                                                     //,
                                                                                                /) 0   /}./) 0./J l/lO
                                                                                               /? /Z- 5/.L /2/1 S/.1.
                                                                                               L?
                                                                                               0
                                                                                                   z <".5 /J.O ,;_g
                                                                                                        /() -?t. .1 /Jn l?t,.J
                                                                                                                                                   /

                                                                                                                                                 "'"'
                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                .fo
                                                                                                                                                           /)        I
                                                                                                                                                           /) j',> 2/.t. /J.cJ 21,(,
                                                                                                                                                           2,   5 at, I?. /.~
                                                                                                                                                           ,., .7tJ /g!,
                                                                                                                                                                           tJ!,     /7,n



                                                                                                                                                                                    /]/)
                                                                                                                                                                                     /Lb
                                                                                                                                                                                              at.        /)

                                                                                                                                                                                                        I?
                                                                                                                                                                                                         /
                                                                                                                                                                                                        /9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ;J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         17 tJ.O ,:J./J 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /9 .t~J /7.b 25.S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /if.~ o.n /3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0 / ! 25: 1 t?-0 25'.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
I
    9-0ther


       Total               £6
                              0         0          /J ,1/l


                                       £ .}'</ Iv,-; 2£!5' /00
                                                                {?. tJ    /)_/)      .t...

                                                                                   .1 ;t
                                                                                                0

                                                                                                I
                                                                                                         4, ,;:J 0.0 5. g                       //         /)



                                                                                                        .u f-,,q 2.t /(JtJ. /1£ .Yt? /(,1, lfu Ji'.5' l,M. !,f //,.
                                                                                                                                                                    //     L.K /J,tJ ,._,;;              $.            /       g      2-"' /.J'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              75 l7r_7 V.s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         do

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /(J(J,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
I
         Evaluation
    0.Balloon
    I-Astronomical
                             (}
                              6
                                     Number



                                      J
                                        I)
                                                <::__,l',EM1'el!.
                                                               P.. cen1




                                                   9 I/-: g ?.9 !2.1.7
                                                                                     :?
                                                                                      2_
                                                                                               -
                                                                                               t
                                                                                                    Ot:ro1J1:I!.

                           Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu
                                                   I) n.fl /J /) n.o                              I       .5 L.K
                                                                                                           9     L,-,;
                                                                                                                          Per Cent


                                                                                                                            12
                                                                                                                               Nuntier




                                                                                                                           1/.,/ 1t>.i
                                                                                                                                         9.7       I
                                                                                                                                                   7
                                                                                                                                                     Per Cent


                                                                                                                                                           ~
                                                                                                                                                           q'
                                                                                                                                                               AJ0·11e "'"Ell



                                                                                                                                                                      1 .1.1,
                                                                                                                                                                             Number




                                                                                                                                                                     I I liff.4
                                                                                                                                                                                    /!,
                                                                                                                                                                              /{J.!t ti.9
                                                                                                                                                                                          i II§//
                                                                                                                                                                                                          L
                                                                                                                                                                                                             /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ot:t:1:._,.,.,.,,e



                                                                                                                                                                                                                      t7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Total Certain Doubtful Total

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I S.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S' //J_t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Per Cent


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                n.n      ;;:,:,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -5:tJ 25.v
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
    2-Aircraft                 I          I        :2, 2-t 2.£. -<:2                  2-       z.         ✓ L.,: t.5 If. tJ                       ,::-     ~-        '1 /f.2, >,3 /{,:                       51           I    ..? 'tltJ         K.t? 15.tJ
    l-Li&litl'II010IIO.
    4-Birds
    ~Clouds, Dus~ etc.
    6-lnsuffic.lnlo.          q
                               I?
                               /,

                              I?
                                        0
                                        t?
                                        ,?

                                        0
                                                    0 t).O 0.0 0. 17
                                                   ,? /}./J /J. /? 0 0
                                                   ;J /J/J /J, /J 0.,.,
                                                   9 21.'1 t?.O 217
                                                                                     0
                                                                                     0
                                                                                      r,
                                                                                      {,
                                                                                               0
                                                                                               ,t)

                                                                                                /J
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                         t? "<n /7,t) o.n
                                                                                                         t? n.n ao t).LJ
                                                                                                          /) I'<!?

                                                                                                          ,:,
                                                                                                                      at? IJ.O
                                                                                                                d ..d /}. tJ Jf.1/
                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                   /7
                                                                                                                                                   /)



                                                                                                                                                  .J'
                                                                                                                                                          0


                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                           /7


                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                     /J
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                     /)

                                                                                                                                                                    ..5
                                                                                                                                                                            11,/.

                                                                                                                                                                           1:7.n
                                                                                                                                                                           /J./J
                                                                                                                                                                           '/9
                                                                                                                                                                                     0.t:J I /J.n
                                                                                                                                                                                      l?,n
                                                                                                                                                                                     /JO /J./J
                                                                                                                                                                                     tJ.O
                                                                                                                                                                                               o.n

                                                                                                                                                                                               7-Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                          //
                                                                                                                                                                                                          /?
                                                                                                                                                                                                         /?
                                                                                                                                                                                                         5"          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /'J

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      t7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               /)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /J.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /J, /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      , , /J

                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,. 15'.17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               /?./) t).O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /J.O o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I). t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               /)_LJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        :Z!i.t,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
    7-Psychological
    &-Unknown
    9-0ther
                            /0
                              6
                               /

                                        0
                                          /]




                                           I
                                                    I -?.t.
                                                  //J
                                                                IJ.O
                                                       21,..1 /J.O tt.1
                                                    7' /!,CJ 2.,:, 11.f ¢'
                                                                          ,f I,       I
                                                                                      J?
                                                                                      /
                                                                                               CJ
                                                                                               0
                                                                                               0
                                                                                                          I      ~2, /.lO
                                                                                                          x t!i.E /J.O 16.K
                                                                                                          I     'f. 2, t).t?
                                                                                                                                      f. 2,


                                                                                                                                         !2
                                                                                                                                                   /)

                                                                                                                                                  .R'
                                                                                                                                                   ~      0
                                                                                                                                                           /)

                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                     ,'7    &t) /20 0. r,
                                                                                                                                                                    I' .2/.t? /J.n 2/.t)
                                                                                                                                                                     1, 5.5 /?, 0              ,:;:.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                         :2.
                                                                                                                                                                                                         .7
                                                                                                                                                                                                             /        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     c?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CJ        $
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5.0 /J,/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /t:UJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     l/5./J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               /J_,-,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               /} / )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         G:t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        JtJ.LJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,.:.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
        Total               'ff        < 3 x' lfL.9 /:J. 2, /t?tJ.                 1-Z         9        .?I     1/. t7 21. I) /aJ               26       /1,       .d LV,q f/./, Vt)p                   J&,          4        !liJ t(}.t? 2/}.tl /OP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                          188                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
I
I
I                                       ;/.. L
                                        Number
                                                         t/£,Ur
                                                                         Per Cent                          Number
                                                                                                                       /4 /,f
                                                                                                                                           PerC"1t
                                                                                                                                                      ,

                                                                                                                                                                           Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                       / r✓.f'
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Per Cent                Number                Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /~,r~


I
         Evaluation        Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total                                             :ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
    ~Ballooo                /'C9        //0 '9/ '? /tfi5 '/. .1 ,.,t                             s             t?        5        ,11         /J.O  ~9 /t?                             /5' 25' 1/111 I/ii:.; ?L9     b                            .t, I _.?.6' /2.. d.7
    l-As1R1111lmical         '741       /5"/ .11.;, I//, ff 1/J. t? ?/.II                      /.2,               <I    /L. 2/.~              '7./ 2i:5 ;.;                            /% .NI Mfl. /9JJ f t t /9                                 ~5' g/j //_/, ~I. IUJ't
    2-Aircrafl              /Kl         .•u/        122 //, 9                9. .1 2/2.         I                  I        2. I.J!          1.1 1.1.     b                               /J  6 I.;_ 6' ao ~.5' /.1                                f    /J<?  7.,c 5.t, 1/.,?,7


I   Hi!htPh"10m.
    4-"eirds
    >Clouds, Dus~ et~
    6-lnsuffic. ~fo.
                             /t
                             /t?
                              j
                                          /7
                                           v
                                           q
                                                     fj
                                                     /d
                                                         7
                                                                I./
                                                                /J.,

                                                               I.a Z
                                                                             /.I ?.Z
                                                                            /JJ
                                                                            ~~
                                                                                        /.t)

                                                                                       11.:
                                                                                                2.
                                                                                                t?
                                                                                                 t?
                                                                                                .;
                                                                                                               /J
                                                                                                               a
                                                                                                               t?
                                                                                                                        t?
                                                                                                                            ~



                                                                                                                            0 /Ji?
                                                                                                                         .; lld1
                                                                                                                                   f.L.
                                                                                                                                   ,<?/,
                                                                                                                                             ,?/1 ?.I.
                                                                                                                                             /J.t? ao
                                                                                                                                             /JO /) /J
                                                                                                                                                          /J
                                                                                                                                                                        /J
                                                                                                                                                                        /7
                                                                                                                                                                                         s ,; ao 5':9' S.4 /J
                                                                                                                                                                                        t?
                                                                                                                                                                                          /
                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                              I t:J.t? /./ II
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,,,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                        o./2 /J./2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     {t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0 t?.t? t!?.t? CJ.CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          f' 2-.? /1 n ?_j'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          t?    t?.t:J /.1.t?         ao
                           l/.14          t)         flt /<?.O Li
                                                    /f,/                                                       0                             0.0 1/J.1                  7'               t?   / '7.5 ,::10 7',5 If                                tl If         //,/J      tlCJ      /f.r,
                                                                                                 ,,
I   7-Psycholo&ial
    1-Uokno•
    !I-Olhe,
                            /.,.

                            ??/
                            ,1/4
                                           § .25 /./     /J."> 11:
                                            r, .?U iv.s tJ.tJ 2/. 6
                                          /// ,;t, ?.I n..,. .;,_,:                            /2..,
                                                                                                     ~
                                                                                                              :?.
                                                                                                              ;?

                                                                                                              t:J
                                                                                                                         ,fl .?L.
                                                                                                                         p It.I
                                                                                                                       /2,
                                                                                                                                              .1.t.
                                                                                                                                       C?.o /£./ /I'?
                                                                                                                                  1/.~ /J.tl /J/u  rt.
                                                                                                                                                          .,.t.         /               /7
                                                                                                                                                                                        /J
                                                                                                                                                                                        2,
                                                                                                                                                                                              / /./ /.1.0 II         2..
                                                                                                                                                                                             /0 /1'/.9 ,i,-, 1/L!,f sf
                                                                                                                                                                                              d ?2. 2-2 ,;(fl .J'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.   I Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        JI 17. I}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .J /. '7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /J.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CJ-0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /. 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I ;f 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /.7




I       Total              /0'7:Z,       U,.[ ;,11             'f't?.7
                                                                  I
                                                                          2U ltm               ;/q
                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                              7        5't IRt.; /?,,:' 1100.                      .5z              (//          P:1 5£.9 ¢'¥-I /00.                     r1      1(,. 1/15 §',j I          #.9 /a:)




I        Evaluation
                                        Number
                                                     /'¥~
                                                         Pei Cent                Number                Per Cail
                                                                                                                             /~5/
                                                                                                                               Nmer                   PerC...t                 Numbef
                                                                                                                                                                                                  /~;.2,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                    PerCmt
                           Certain DoubtfuI Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain DoobtfuI Total ~ertain Doubtfu I Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain lloubtfu Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                         ,:1/11? ?.J'. If.I ,;;, YtJ 2p:, I/.,? ff.9 l<','\2-
    ~BallOCMI                /,(               ~     U)         IJ'..!       /,:-     tdf        ~                I

I   l·A-ical
    2-Aircraft
                             1.J
                             /:,'          '7_
                                               -?    ·~
                                                     11
                                                                9. t.
                                                                /II
                                                                            5:t ;qf
                                                                            1.< 112-1.
                                                                                                     f
                                                                                                     ,.;
                                                                                                              .2.
                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                        11119.? 4-.J' H9 //t} 55 1,5 1/i:?..? ">.Q I/" 2,
                                                                                                                        5'. %? 2.2- /Cl. 9 ,/14 /.Z.f 27P ///o 12.t. it.t
    3-Litht Phenom.           0            0              0     /}/'}       ,,., /J    /.?n          /}        I         I /J,? :J.2, :?.2 1d I I 'If, 1. ✓ /. I ':J.5
    4-Birds                    Cl          ,,,            0      ,, ,        />-       /J./)         /J       /          I /J.,1 :J.Z 2.2    ~     2,.  i (J.t, /J. 1. IJ.i

I   >Cloud~ Dus~ et~
    6-lnsuffic.tnfo.
    7-Psychologital
                              0
                            j'.J
                             ,/           0
                                           tJ
                                           0
                                                         {J
                                                     ..1.1 ?1.14
                                                       q .?. t)
                                                                 t? /       />~


                                                                            /JO I.?✓."
                                                                            /}/)
                                                                                       /J.IO


                                                                                        ?./,
                                                                                                4
                                                                                                 I']



                                                                                                tJ
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                               /
                                                                                                                        /J tJ.tJ t?.O 1/J o

                                                                                                                            " f?J
                                                                                                                             I    n.t)
                                                                                                                                             ?
                                                                                                                                              /).0
                                                                                                                                                  ✓

                                                                                                                                             2.2. :Z.2.
                                                                                                                                                         1 tJ.1 tJ.,j iJ.7
                                                                                                                                                          gJ         /C

                                                                                                                                                                        R
                                                                                                                                                                                        t?
                                                                                                                                                                                        5
                                                                                                                                                                                                   &> ~.v' /JO
                                                                                                                                                                                                   /.J t?.t      /.f   ~" "·"
    8-Unknown               .H,            0         ~I.       :Jl.t.       ,'//)      1tl. 17                ()       !'1 J'7.,             /J. tJ ?:((} :22&                          t) !tt         22-~ /10 22.f;

I   9-0ther


        Total
                              J'

                           It .t
                                              /J.


                                         /.1 !.15 l?&.41
                                                         5      1.:Z.       1,:;



                                                                            9.t,
                                                                                       ?.7

                                                                                      /()/)_
                                                                                             0

                                                                                               .1'/
                                                                                                              0         0         ao CJ.0 t?o ~2.

                                                                                                              '/ l.dL l.?4,' j /5'., 1/()v,
                                                                                                                                                                                        " 1       /J

                                                                                                                                                                    7/J .101 J()tl/ l:m.1 ~?.-f /OP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                             7.:2      /J.t.     /n




I                                                   4,         ½e·• •5
                                                                                    £V,9i..t/ATtt2&'.
                                                                                    ,fr,/       Sf./~"'£
                                                                                                                             i2F

                                                                                                                        /"'d-?
                                                                                                                                 ,?,C
                                                                                                                                            d?L.
                                                                                                                                              nnJ,;,er
                                                                                                                                                              VGffT//1/ b S
                                                                                                                                                                    /
                                                                                                                                                                                                P/J/',KET
                                                                                                                                                                                                 / 9-./'$'
                                                                                                                                                                                                              El2-!'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A/11/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ALL       V£ 4,es
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,AA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /9¢'ji
                                   Number                Per Cent                Number                Per Cent                Number                Per Cent                 Number               Per Cmt


I        Evaluation
    ~Balloon
    1-Astronomical
                           Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total Certain Doubttul Total Certain Doubttul Total Certain lloubtfu Total Certain Doubtful Total
                               .!
                              .,I
                                           f
                                          /t.              "    {t.0       1?-0 !4'.'o
                                                         2.0 2- 7! 109 If. t.
                                                                                                     /J
                                                                                                     /J
                                                                                                               /J
                                                                                                               tJ
                                                                                                                         tJ 120
                                                                                                                            t11 ,?,!)
                                                                                                                                             0./J
                                                                                                                                             IJ. t,
                                                                                                                                                          /)_/)

                                                                                                                                                          o.a
                                                                                                                                                                        tJ
                                                                                                                                                                        a               ~
                                                                                                                                                                                            /              / ldo'       '7. I
                                                                                                                                                                                                       2, tJ.t? /4.J /'Ii
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '1. I     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I t. !? tJ.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .J'    ,? ,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     L..Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /fl.., 11-1'1
    2-Aircraft               ?I           7R             9'? /IIJ /f.O 5.f3                          /,                  tJ 0.,:;                                                           I          6 J'5.? '7./ ld19                                                   ,._·?    lfi':'7
                                   ,,                                                                ,,        /')                           /)_,:;       /} r,
                                                                                                                                                                            ,,,"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /     .J' /2-"'


I   3-LiehtPtlenom.
    4-Birds
    S-Clouds. Dust, etc.
                               /}

                               /J
                                           /J
                                            I
                                              /           ..! / f o'7 :?.tJ
                                                          tJ l.o, ,; t'?.C} 00
                                                           I
                                                                .,,_,, t77 Q7
                                                                                                 cJ
                                                                                                     /}
                                                                                                              ,J
                                                                                                              ,,,
                                                                                                              /J
                                                                                                                        /J 1'20
                                                                                                                        /J /J.t:
                                                                                                                         IJ       /)/J
                                                                                                                                             l'J.u /J/J
                                                                                                                                             /J./J
                                                                                                                                             /20 JJ.O
                                                                                                                                                          /J.t?             ,,
                                                                                                                                                                            /)
                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                        /J
                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                   .JJ tJ.tl t?.t:? l&.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Cl IJ.r1 /J.O t?.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                   t:J /J.O C//J ao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I tl.t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /)/'}


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          t? /J./1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           />n

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /Jn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /) /')
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /?. /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ~-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /J /')
    6-lnsuffic.lnfo.         /0            0             10     ~-1         tl-0       a             /)       /J            /J /20           ti.{)         /} /,            I          0               I      '1 /     ,?.,:;    -TI       !?.    /)     Z, 12.5'          /J_l'J   /'1.~



I   7-PsyCb>lo~cal
    8-Unkno'MI
    '-Other
                            J.1
                               -f


                              7'
                                           t?
                                           t)

                                              I
                                                         1          //1
                                                                ~fl ,?.,?
                                                     t./.f 2?.5 ao £11
                                                          !1    4ft' tJ.7 !AG
                                                                                                 /J
                                                                                                 {.
                                                                                                 /J          0
                                                                                                               /J
                                                                                                              /)
                                                                                                                         /J
                                                                                                                        {.
                                                                                                                            /}
                                                                                                                               ,?,~
                                                                                                                                  //)~/

                                                                                                                                   /J./J
                                                                                                                                             tJ.o 11.0
                                                                                                                                             /J./J //J/J,o
                                                                                                                                             /)&          C).()
                                                                                                                                                                        .5'
                                                                                                                                                                            /,



                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                        c?
                                                                                                                                                                                        /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                   .f 214 tJ.(J :!M
                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                      .O.tl /<?./J 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                       tJ


                                                                                                                                                                                                       11 0.CJ 7. I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I .I..Z.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         t. 1'75
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /J CJ._,:)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /),.,


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /J.o H.,:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /..2..


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /J.{7 ,.,_,.,



I       Total               f7 50                    1th ,;,:. tJ         J'✓
                                                                            .t? /OP.
                                                                                                "             I?        t         //]/)/     IJ.t) l/17/J.              /0              d 1<1 'V.4 2&'.t /m,_                            /Z       ✓ /b          '1,t;_,;   25.~     //}/}




I        Evaluatioa
                                        Number
                                                     /?S'CJ
                                                         PerCEflt                Number                PerCEflt
                           Certain Doublful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                        /?5'/


                                                                                                                  I /J/J 4.f? ~x
                                                                                                                                                                                   Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                  1,;5_?~
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Per Cent                Number                Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                   ~ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                       2, I .J
    0-Balloon                      I          0              I ~7          ,<?/]       -1?       /J                /                                                     I          _L                                 1.1 2.t

I   I-Astronomical
    2-Aircraft
    Hi!htPh"10m.
                              0
                               (l
                                   I       h
                                           /)

                                           /)
                                                          1 -17 r/L.2.,
                                                          ol,,;,o /J /) I/J.O
                                                         0 On ,?/J ,.,~
                                                                                      ~n
                                                                                                 s
                                                                                                     /



                                                                                                     /J
                                                                                                             ;?  / l,/.Ji' /J /J dR
                                                                                                              ✓ -y 2U ;<?.o ,/2.f
                                                                                                              ,,,       0          /] /'
                                                                                                                                             CJ. 0 /J. /}
                                                                                                                                                                        ?
                                                                                                                                                                        '/ I _t:2,

                                                                                                                                                                        2.-
                                                                                                                                                                                   .   .£ 7 ~-t. I..<
                                                                                                                                                                                        /
                                                                                                                                                                                                  J/ //.?        l</t1.J'
                                                                                                                                                                                                  J' '?. t /..J ft?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     n,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9.1


    4-Birds                    /J          /J            tJ C.t? /J.n /J./,                      /J           /J        /)        /J /, 01:J 0.0                        C               a          o l&tJ t?.O 0.()

I   S-Clouds, Dust, etc.
    6-lnsuHic. alo.
    7-Psycholo&ical
                               0
                               /
                               ,?
                                          /J
                                          0
                                          c?
                                                         0
                                                          I
                                                                0./J     /). /) 0. 0
                                                                '1.? 0.0 77
                                                            /) ,-7,.,-:; a,,, /J.O
                                                                                                /J
                                                                                                ~
                                                                                                 /J
                                                                                                              t?
                                                                                                              CJ.
                                                                                                              L7
                                                                                                                        /J /J.Cl
                                                                                                                        ~

                                                                                                                        t? t?.O
                                                                                                                                             /J. /)
                                                                                                                                  f. s- /7,, f' 5'
                                                                                                                                             /? 0
                                                                                                                                                          /'Jn




                                                                                                                                                          0.0
                                                                                                                                                                        t}
                                                                                                                                                                        ¢
                                                                                                                                                                        tf,
                                                                                                                                                                                         I'
                                                                                                                                                                                        /J
                                                                                                                                                                                       /?
                                                                                                                                                                                                   I IJ.O /· J' /.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,I 5-2. /J.tJ 5.Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                       t.   1'1.t      (l.t)     :tf'
    6-Uokno..                ..J'         /)             ..? '71/ /?_/<? •?J? I                  -7           /?         -7 .J'f.~ ,:;J./J ?.J'J                    /,1"                /)         IS 2-?4' tJ.tJ 2/1,

I   '-0th..


       Total
                               /



                               1
                                          tl

                                           ~
                                                          /     -,;-, /J.o


                                                     /.J' 5.i'f' l,h_:z. I1o,?.
                                                                                 7. '7          /

                                                                                                /6
                                                                                                              /J        / I-✓-~ "<~ l ✓..f


                                                                                                             S' .2/ I~ .t 2.1.S l/tJtJ
                                                                                                                                                                        d               /           5 5:2 /.3 t.5

                                                                                                                                                                    .;/.; ..fl '17 5f.J 14-'?'J' 1/IJO.



I                                                                                                                                         189

I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             •
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                              TIIBU


                                      Jmmber
                                                Alt%

                                                      Jlu
                                                            PerCmt
                                                                       ll'/
                                                                //=..,~$
                                                                                         <, .,,,,,,.       o,c

                                                                                                         Number
                                                                                                                     /,!J,r/.,r
                                                                                                                                  /J~ I F , . /



                                                                                                                                             Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                 Number
                                                                                                                                                        /


                                                                                                                                                                       Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                        MEr,;;:t:J.e
                                                                                                                                                                                         /I?, Ill'
                                                                                                                                                                                               Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /7"'



                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  //JAJET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /4,,:/f'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
             E'lllutioo       Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tolal                   ettain Doubtful Tolal Certain Doubtful Total ~rtan Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Cerlain Ooobtlul Total Certain Doubllul Toi~
        0-Balloon                ✓              /}      ✓       L/?        /]/]       •h        /J          /)            tJ /},?               /JO t?.tJ               /)         /)       t1 0,/)           tJ_ tJ      ,u,     t?         CJ       t1 tl,tJ /7,/J at?
        1-Astronocnical        //x        -?.:::       ?'.J' ~/. I 2/../, 77.,;                 £,             17         2. ,,,,.,            ,?_ 17 //'~              K      R          /J' .?/.2           .C:/1.~    %1..t.   ,:,__     !,        1 2~0 (,.t_~ %'1.5
        2•Aircraft               !Z,,       :2,          d 2.1 2./ ./?                          1J          /]            tJ       /}JJ         /} /]   tJ,/J        0         17             /J      /J_/J/.lo tJ.o              CJ         0        0     /}_/)   tJ.tJ t2tJ
        3-Ligt,ll'II"""-
        4•8irds
        5-Clouds, Dus~ et~       0
                                    0
                                    tJ
                                           I
                                            I
                                            /           I
                                                        I
                                                          I t?o /. / /./
                                                                /J /J
                                                               tJtJ /. I
                                                                           /./


                                                                            ,.,,, 2.1
                                                                                       I./.

                                                                                      I. I
                                                                                                ,')

                                                                                                /J
                                                                                                   tJ
                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                            /J
                                                                                                           /J
                                                                                                                          tJ t?. tJ      /}/1

                                                                                                                         tJ /7.t? /7. /] t?. CJ
                                                                                                                         t7 /?.LJ ,2/J /}_ t1
                                                                                                                                               o.a
                                                                                                                                                                     tJ
                                                                                                                                                                        t?


                                                                                                                                                                        t1
                                                                                                                                                                               t?
                                                                                                                                                                               /J
                                                                                                                                                                               0          0
                                                                                                                                                                                              17
                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                     tl.t? 'l /7 tJ /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                     tJt}
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,in
                                                                                                                                                                                                              t).O
                                                                                                                                                                                                              /J.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,7,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /J.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /]

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,?/7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A/1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /}/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    17/) /ltJ

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    12.£> it.£,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /J.tJ         "1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
        6-lnsuffic. ~fo.         ?         0            2- 2./                                  /J          /]           tJ '?,, a,:; ,1 /1                          /7        /J             /7     CJ.{)    /J.0        /J/J    /J        C         /7    /2tJ    /}_/7         /2tJ
        7-Psyc:llololical
        1-UMm•
        9-0lhe,
                                /J
                                !l
                                 /7
                                           /7
                                           0
                                           /J
                                                        0 t?.t.
                                                        !l     ~~
                                                        CJ tJ. 1)
                                                                           /}/,

                                                                           /J.O ?.5
                                                                           tJ. t1 0/
                                                                                      0.tJ      17
                                                                                                IJ
                                                                                               t1
                                                                                                            ,?

                                                                                                           tJ
                                                                                                            17
                                                                                                                         tJ
                                                                                                                         tJ
                                                                                                                         tJ
                                                                                                                                  /26
                                                                                                                                  /?.O
                                                                                                                                   .,,,..,
                                                                                                                                                /?. /, Cl.CJ
                                                                                                                                               /J.tJ 0.0
                                                                                                                                                /7.,, /1..,.,
                                                                                                                                                                     J'
                                                                                                                                                                    /)
                                                                                                                                                                        /J    CJ
                                                                                                                                                                              CJ
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                          j
                                                                                                                                                                                              tJ tJ.O

                                                                                                                                                                                              /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                    ltR..8' tJ.tl Vi.'&'
                                                                                                                                                                                                     /J./J
                                                                                                                                                                                                               tJ.O • '1"'

                                                                                                                                                                                                              t). CJ n./J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t'J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     t1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     t1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     t1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /7,0     ,., /7

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IJ.tJ /J./J /Jtl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,?tJ /J CJ o.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              tJ./J

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
    i       Total
                               "✓ 5tJ q.J t,f I .J'/. 9 /CJO.                                   ?,         /]            ~        ,?CJJ t?.CJ /CJt}.                f         !l         It 5ao S?).CJ It»                        ~         ?         S? 25tJ ;/5:tJ /CJa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
             Evaluation
        0-Ballooo
                                         Number
                                                       /tJSCJ
                                                             Per Cent                Number
                                                                                               /yS'/
                                                                                                           Per Cent
                                                                                                                                         /~ S;!.,
                                                                                                                                   Nuntler/              Per Cent               Number               PerCmt
                              Certain 0OllbtfuI Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doimtlul Tolal Certain Doubtful Total certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certin Doubtfu Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                   I t;;?,; /J.tJ sao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                  /       IJ                                     ;J      0 t? /J/J 11.d tJtJ J                         tJ .f E/, 7 at? L/.7
        1-A-ical
        2-Aircraft
        3-Li&flt Phenom.
                                 /J
                                 0
                                    /      0

                                           0
                                            /J          /;7

                                                        0
                                                            I §atJ tJtJ 5'0(1
                                                                /}/)

                                                                tl./J
                                                                           tJ./J IJI}
                                                                           f'?/7 ,?/J           0
                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                   /J        CJ
                                                                                                            /J
                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                           ?. 5L? r, 5'0.tJ /'°'11 .J'7
                                                                                                                              tJ.tJ /J, tJ /)/} ~
                                                                                                                         /J /7/J O.t? / ) /)          ,?
                                                                                                                                                                               //

                                                                                                                                                                               /
                                                                                                                                                                                  2.
                                                                                                                                                                                         4¥ 57'!1 11. t ! 7'5.0
                                                                                                                                                                                          ✓ .f I ..Y. I L2
                                                                                                                                                                                              /      /) /}     /.6 /.t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
        4-Birds                  CJ        t?          /)       ,1/J       t2!J /J.t}           0           0            /J tM IJ.t} IJ1.d           /J                        /J            /7. t? /7.1) Cl. t)
                                                                                                                                                                                              0
        5-Cloud~ Dus~ et~
        6-lnsuffic.blro.
        7-Psycbological
                                 /J
                                    0

                                    t?
                                           0
                                            t:7


                                            n
                                                       /)

                                                       t1
                                                        0
                                                               /1/2
                                                               /}_tJ
                                                                           /J/}
                                                                           &tJ /Jo
                                                               'ao tJ. CJ /1/1
                                                                                      /JO          /J
                                                                                                   /)

                                                                                                    /,
                                                                                                            n
                                                                                                                t7
                                                                                                                /7
                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                          /J   /)/,
                                                                                                                                      120 /JO
                                                                                                                               n/J tUJ 00
                                                                                                                          t1 /J /J /)/1 OtJ
                                                                                                                                                     /J
                                                                                                                                                      ?
                                                                                                                                                     /)
                                                                                                                                                                               /

                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                              C7
                                                                                                                                                                                           I at? /.t. /.{.
                                                                                                                                                                                          2. .?_/ tJ_/) 11
                                                                                                                                                                                          t? 00 tJ.O tJ. t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
        8-Unkno'MI               0         a           /7      /7./J       tJ.e?      /1/1      tJ          0            t1 /J/J /J. tJ /1tJ         ,;-                                  s N' /7. /J ?.~

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                               /J
        9-0the,                  /J        /J          0       /}/)        /J, /)      '1"      0           0             0 /J/J tJ.tJ /7. tJ        0                         c7         t? /7,., tJ. o 0. 0

            Toi~                2,         tJ          2.- /tJ(1t, tJ.tJ lt?tJ                 /            I            z ,tl.t. 50. tJ                JN)        d1;        15'         w 17'£,L .1.1'.fi ,,,,,
                              -CML/f            Af,z9

                                                    Au Ve,1,e.s
                                                                           £//At, fl/ZOl2dl
                                                                           llV      S,UJd.t:
                                                                                                                     Or
                                                                                                                     /7C
                                                                                                                        ,t7,/f
                                                                                                                                   ,?O
                                                                                                                                       &LL.
                                                                                                                                              'Et'.T
                                                                                                                                                        S«;H04/G 5
                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                               Lc/1/rll't/L .,,,-
                                                                                                                                                                                              /4c/%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      t!CJI/I/ • .4         ,.,,.,        TE/1P""'-"~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,~r:/fl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                      Number                Per Cent                Number                Per Cent                Hunter                PerCmt                  Num~r                PerC81t
             Evaluation
        0-Balloon
        I-Astronomical
                              Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu Total Cerlain Doubtful Tolll

                               29
                               ,d          /(/
                                                ,:; 7,/ lt'.11 .J'•.Z. .2/. t.
                                                    ?ff rl~ ~t; l;(J
                                                                                                Cl
                                                                                                0             /
                                                                                                                0         C7 ~/J tUJ IJ.tl
                                                                                                                          /       f2!)         flJ      ,ft
                                                                                                                                                                        !?_
                                                                                                                                                                        ¢'
                                                                                                                                                                                   /
                                                                                                                                                                                  CJ      d
                                                                                                                                                                                              3      ID. 9. I 21,J
                                                                                                                                                                                                     1,_,,     /J.o Jt.t/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            tl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       $' 6.f..1 /J.O 5$1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      :z, ao 1/f..J' I.?. .1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .,- 0.0 ?1.f '<?:!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
        2-Aircraft              /7         /t:,        fJ' 1/).il 10.I ~9                       /J           0           0        /J/J          /]/)    /JIJ            6          /J         /7     /J. /J     /)_() &o          CJ        .,<
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ~,, "2 t1 a.o
        3-Lightl'lln>m.
        4-Bilds
        5-Clouds, Oust, et~
                                    0
                                    /

                                    tl
                                            I
                                            I
                                                  I n,, 0. {. CJ.{.
                                                 z tJ.I. tJ.(, /.:2.
                                          ;,I ,/ /7/) ?. ! , .1!>
                                                                                                0

                                                                                                /J
                                                                                                   '"       tl
                                                                                                               t7
                                                                                                                /7
                                                                                                                         tJ tJ.IJ
                                                                                                                         0        ,,,.,,
                                                                                                                         t? /J./J 1'?/J /Jcl
                                                                                                                                               ,?/}

                                                                                                                                               ,1.tJ
                                                                                                                                                        l}tJ
                                                                                                                                                        ,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                     IJ
                                                                                                                                                                        tJ
                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                               t?
                                                                                                                                                                                  L?
                                                                                                                                                                                   /]
                                                                                                                                                                                              tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                              17
                                                                                                                                                                                                     tJ_ {)
                                                                                                                                                                                                     91
                                                                                                                                                                                                     /J./)
                                                                                                                                                                                                               t)O
                                                                                                                                                                                                               /}_I)

                                                                                                                                                                                                              0,()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         l)O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          {l,/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          t)_()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /]

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /J./1   C. /'.J /J.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            t:?.CJ 0./7 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
        6-lnsuffic. Into.       /5        0    /!,  f.5 () /) 9.5                               d                        d J'.!.1 tl.t? JJ'.J'                                 .,,            17     tJ.o tJ.o CI.O                   ,,;            /J             0. t:) 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ~,, tJ. () /J.() .,,
                                                                                                            /J.                                                         /7                                                                  t:7             ~/)

        7-P,ycbolo~cal
        a-u-...
        9-0ther
                                 d
                               j2.,
                                 d        /
                                           tJ   ✓ ?.!: 17.0 2.5
                                            0 .?Z, 2tJ.1 0. 0 2tJ.1
                                                5 ?.5' /J.t .J' I
                                                                                               5
                                                                                                17


                                                                                               2..
                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                            0

                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                          t1 t'l.t? ,11) tJ.tJ
                                                                                                                         ,; lw.1 &.tJ I-?-% ;t
                                                                                                                         z.        IL. 7 cl. tJ         /L"J'
                                                                                                                                                                        /]

                                                                                                                                                                        ?.
                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                              /J
                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                              cJ
                                                                                                                                                                                          ;1,
                                                                                                                                                                                              t1

                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                    If. t,
                                                                                                                                                                                                      u
                                                                                                                                                                                                              tJ_t} d.t
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ~/1         9,/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     cJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.CJ 0/'.J /J /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            &.o /J. CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ~,., 0.    t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /J.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
           Total               flt        Q? 1,;R 'ff,; 2t.t
                                                                                      ""'·    /I            I          /:Z,    1?17 ff.j' /tla                     It?         /         //          'i'tJ.9 f.l        /CJ().    ~         7        /S- !>.£3 4i.7 /t?t).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
             Evaluation
        0-BallOOII
                              Certain Ooobtful Tolal Certain Doubtful Tolal
                                 .t..
                                         -      /
                                                       /"~/,?


                                                        1
                                                                        Per Cent


                                                               It. 1 Jf.1 t~o
                                                                                                         Number
                                                                                              ertain Doubtful Total Certin Doubtful Total
                                                                                                ,,             t1
                                                                                                                       /Y'S/



                                                                                                                          2., ;/~/, t?.n
                                                                                                                                           Per Cent


                                                                                                                                                l<".f.L ;,r
                                                                                                                                                                          Nu-

                                                                                                                                                                                   ;,
                                                                                                                                                                                         /~ ~2,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                Per Cent


                                                                                                                                                                                          /ff /D_ 9           .2t? 11. 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Number                Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                   ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Cerlain Ooobtlul Total Certain Doubtful Tola
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
        I-Astronomical
        2-Aircrift
        3-Ligt,t Phenom.
                                 /J
                                  ?
                                    /J
                                            :2.,


                                            //
                                               /'.J
                                                       £ 1'717 lt-7 //..7
                                                       .J' ?5.6 //-" 25:IJ
                                                        t1 /J.,,J 17.;J tJ.tJ
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                I'?

                                                                                                t?
                                                                                                            c?
                                                                                                            CJ
                                                                                                               t,         .1-- /}_/)
                                                                                                                          17
                                                                                                                         tJ
                                                                                                                                   /J./)

                                                                                                                                   o.n
                                                                                                                                         21'.I. 2.f.t /Cl
                                                                                                                                          t?- () /J.O /Q
                                                                                                                                                /) 1'   /J.O            tJ
                                                                                                                                                                              I/
                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                   7      17
                                                                                                                                                                                         ?5" I/ 9 10_' 9 Nx
                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                      9. 9     l,..t;


                                                                                                                                                                                                     /J.C. /. t1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ti..x

                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
        4•8irds                  0          0           ,? tJ.tJ ,1/J /JtJ                      0           0            0         tJ.17        /},/)       /J.O     17        /              /      J1,?     /.0         /. tJ
                                                                           ,,,                              .,,
        5-Clouds, Dust, et~
        6-lnsuffi~ ~lo.
        7-Psydlolo&icat          0
                                    0
                                    /
                                            n
                                            ()
                                           CJ
                                                        a l/7,tJ
                                                        I  f{J'
                                                        tJ /,l/J
                                                                           /}17
                                                                                 /}




                                                                          17.17 Otl
                                                                                      /JO
                                                                                      ~J'
                                                                                                17
                                                                                               .?,
                                                                                                /7          17
                                                                                                               /7
                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                         2-
                                                                                                                         tJ
                                                                                                                                   170 /J.O
                                                                                                                                  2;:, IJ.O 191.
                                                                                                                                   tJ_{)        t?.O o.o
                                                                                                                                                            ,? n    0
                                                                                                                                                                    ,r
                                                                                                                                                                    /
                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                               ✓

                                                                                                                                                                              tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                              (/
                                                                                                                                                                                              I"
                                                                                                                                                                                              ,;/
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,,,.,, Q,t) ,:/17
                                                                                                                                                                                                     N        /JO
                                                                                                                                                                                                     d.tJ £lo 4'.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ;1.f                                                           I
        1-Untmo..               .J'         0           .7 2517           dtJ :t5.tJ            /              /J        /        ,./_j        /1 tJ ;~/_j'        2/         0          2./ 1-?IJ ll /7.0 ~ti.I
    9-Qthe,                     0         c?            0   /2r,          c?tJ o,:;J            ~           l'7          0         d.17        17.17    17.0        /          /          ~    /_ /7 /. t) 2.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -
           Total                 9         .J'        /z,     11.s:'tJ 25".0 ,?t,1            5'           z             '/ 11<1 2f'.t mt).                        15         .u /0/ 11'.t.a 2'f.1 /t)t)

                                                                                                                                         190

•                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
I
I
I                                           Number
                                                       ,h.L        Uc,M•~
                                                             Per Cent                Number                PerCeot
                                                                                                                  /,;,,/7'
                                                                                                                                                         /



                                                                                                                                                                          Number
                                                                                                                                                                                       /f,qf
                                                                                                                                                                                      PerCetll                Number                PerCeot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /t?,'/?



I   ~Balloon
            E'llluation


    l•Ast1UJ10mical
    2•Aircraft,
                               Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total ~ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total


                                 £7
                                 ,;
                                   .f          .5'
                                             ,g';f'
                                              ,,.,
                                                             (, /.7          /.., j.¢
                                                         IP, I~~ 25'..f f;'/,1
                                                         2.9 /tJ. 9 S.7 It.. t.
                                                                                                /
                                                                                               ~-
                                                                                                tJ
                                                                                                        /J
                                                                                                        /J
                                                                                                           /J         I j'f.J /Jt? J'f.!
                                                                                                                      2,
                                                                                                                   I} ,:J./J
                                                                                                                            /.
                                                                                                                             ✓-,   7 4.17 U.J
                                                                                                                                        /J/}    /J.O
                                                                                                                                                         eftain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Ceftain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tot~
                                                                                                                                                                 /J
                                                                                                                                                                  7'
                                                                                                                                                                 /J
                                                                                                                                                                             17
                                                                                                                                                                             ✓
                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                        /J /JI)
                                                                                                                                                                                       /I 14/2 :tJ'.5 t¥.
                                                                                                                                                                                        I tJ.o 59 S.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                         /J.t) /J./,        tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ff
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LI      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      t7     t? /Jt?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5' 11;; :11 /t1. ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /J.tJ 4t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,t1 .5'5 110 5'f.// 7f/'',-




I   3-Li&hlPheoom.
    4-Birds
    S-Clouds, Dus~ et~
    6-lnsuffi~lnlo.
                                   I
                                  /J
                                   (J
                                    -?
                                               I}
                                               /
                                               /1

                                              ,?
                                                           I It?,.: /1,/J tU.
                                                          I ~ / ) ,,,_ ti.I.
                                                          tJ /J.tJ tJ. /J /Jt)
                                                          .3        (-J      /,l(J    /. 7
                                                                                               /)

                                                                                               0

                                                                                               0
                                                                                                /J
                                                                                                       /J
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                       /J
                                                                                                       ,tl
                                                                                                                   tJ ,?.tJ t?.t? (?.,:)
                                                                                                                  /J
                                                                                                                  ,., /Jt)
                                                                                                                            /J/J


                                                                                                                  0 /?tJ dt? ao
                                                                                                                               ,:?.r,,
                                                                                                                                       c?

                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                        /2tJ
                                                                                                                                        /JI)
                                                                                                                                                 /?/'.
                                                                                                                                                                 /J


                                                                                                                                                                 /)
                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                            ,,.,
                                                                                                                                                                            /J
                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                       /J /J. tJ IJ. /) o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                       tJ /J_t? /J.t? /J /
                                                                                                                                                                                        /J t?tJ /J.,? t?_,:
                                                                                                                                                                                       LJ 4.0 /l /) /J.t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            :1.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /)



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /J /2/7 4,:? 111?'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /7 '? A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,?/J /JC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /Jt:J at? IL?t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ~ 4(3     ~.?    ✓. J'
                                                                                                                  ,.,
I   7-Psydllllolical
    I-Unknown
    9-0the,
                                  2..
                                  /I<
                                  %
                                              /)



                                              5
                                               0
                                                          2. ,. I
                                                         /$ /n_f /J.n /().j'
                                                         /? 4. 6 ,t,9 -:(5"
                                                                            tJ./J     I./      t?
                                                                                               0
                                                                                               t?
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                       /1
                                                                                                       /J
                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                  17
                                                                                                                           dv t!?.tJ
                                                                                                                            /1/)

                                                                                                                            /J/J /,/_/J tfJt?
                                                                                                                            40 /20 at?
                                                                                                                                                                 /J

                                                                                                                                                                 /
                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                            ./
                                                                                                                                                                                       t? a,r, tJ.o t).n
                                                                                                                                                                                        /       sf       IJ.0
                                                                                                                                                                                       LI /) ,r, :2?.~ :tf.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5:?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             tJ /?t? 17/J 40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5 /tJ./,- LJ,:J /Cit.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /J    /)/)    ,.,,., /Jc?

I          Total                Ill          ~.! 111 I.C_/.~ .?£.2 l/t>d.                     .J'      Cl         s !Wt tJt? /vi?.                               $'          ?        /7 l./..1I 52.? 1/tJ,?.              /f     ~i' ✓7 4',M' 5f.6 /'70.




I            Evaluation
        ~Balloon                  /)
                                            Number
                                Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu I Total Certain Doubtful Total Ceftain Doobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain lloubtfu Total Certain Doobtful T~
                                               17
                                                          /1517
                                                              Percent


                                                             /J     /J/1    ,? /J
                                                                                       Number


                                                                                      /J.CJ     ,?         /J
                                                                                                                   /95'/
                                                                                                             Per Cent


                                                                                                                      t? .l?t?
                                                                                                                                     Nun>er

                                                                                                                                        l?.1?   /1;:;1
                                                                                                                                                           Per Cent


                                                                                                                                                                  :?          j
                                                                                                                                                                                        /! '5.Z
                                                                                                                                                                                   Number


                                                                                                                                                                                     5 2.4 _?. ,t t,. CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                         PerCmt




I       l•AsburNmlical
        !·Aircraft
        Hight Pheoom.
                                  //
                                  ?
                                    CJ
                                              .?
                                              0
                                              ,,.,
                                                          /,/ IL4'7 /'/ I., li't.J
                                                          .t. ;;,g 1'7.tJ //.!
                                                          0        /J 17     ///J ,J,CJ
                                                                                                /
                                                                                                /
                                                                                                6
                                                                                                        /J
                                                                                                           <'

                                                                                                           /J
                                                                                                                   "'
                                                                                                                      ✓ //b ✓1.9 ,;f j_
                                                                                                                      I 1,,/.j'
                                                                                                                             11.0 17 t?
                                                                                                                                        tJ.O    /(/~
                                                                                                                                                t:/r1
                                                                                                                                                             2R
                                                                                                                                                                 /.2,
                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                             %
                                                                                                                                                                             r1
                                                                                                                                                                                 7' .?5 ff.7 11.✓ ¥:t.t.
                                                                                                                                                                                      £0        14(5 f.t, 2'11
                                                                                                                                                                                            / /. ?,     ,:J.CJ /, :z.
    4-,Birds                       0          0              /J    /J/J     l'7. /J   ao        0       /J         tJ       /}_cJtJ.tJ tJ.cJ                      /J          I             I   /J /J /, 2,, /.Z

I   HloudS. Oust, etc.
        6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
        7-Psychological
                                   /)


                                   CJ
                                   (J
                                              0
                                               /)

                                               /7
                                                          /J
                                                          17
                                                          (J
                                                                   /J_/J    ,7, /J /J, /J
                                                                   /7./J /}_/,J 0.CJ
                                                                   r1.t? /J, J? 00
                                                                                                /J
                                                                                                /?
                                                                                                r1
                                                                                                       /J
                                                                                                       /J
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                   /J
                                                                                                                   /J
                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                            ,?{J c?.o tJ.tJ
                                                                                                                            atJ ao t),:?
                                                                                                                            ,,,    /)   t?.(} 1'20
                                                                                                                                                                  tJ

                                                                                                                                                                 :1.
                                                                                                                                                                     /
                                                                                                                                                                              n
                                                                                                                                                                             /J
                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                        /?
                                                                                                                                                                                        /
                                                                                                                                                                                                tl-t:J t?.t? ,:J,/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                /.:1✓

                                                                                                                                                                                       :t. :!J/ ao 2.f,'
                                                                                                                                                                                                          t7. CJ /-~

        &-Unknown                  I                               5:? 4cJ 5-f                  :z..               :t. I-?<?,;          l?.cJ 21'.t               ,;                    9       /,? !l    CJ.,::? lltU


I
                                                0         /                                            0                                                                     0
    9-0ther                       !}          tJ          17       ,f?tJ tJ.v aCJ               0      0           /?       IJ.tJ       t2tJ tJ.o                 !l          I         9        fl.,    /. 2., /tJ.f

           Tot~                  1¥           g          11 Iii.~ 1,7.t, v.112                 ✓       .J'        ?' ~f.l 42.9 /,:J().                       ts :Zt7                  11.f 1.,-c9 2¥-1 //1<?



I                              1JltfL£               ,4/,l/

                                                       4LL         1/~bRS
                                                                                .I'/'/        S/U1p,t:
                                                                                                                  tJr-
                                                                                                                   OP
                                                                                                                  /(/~/7
                                                                                                                                        /Jo l,GtJ.T
                                                                                                                                                             /
                                                                                                                                                                                      /?T/.1&,t>
                                                                                                                                                                                        / ~✓g
                                                                                                                                                                                                FM         .4£L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SH,A >&s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /90
                                        Number                PerCeot                 Number                PerCmt                                                  Nuni>er               PerCeot                Number               PerCeot


I            Evaluation
        0-Balloon
        I-Astronomical
                                Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Owbtful Total
                                  .J',',1

                                  ✓1
                                               /I
                                               :t,i
                                                         5.J' 110 ✓
                                                          ~/ /.!./
                                                                            s:~ /1..:Z
                                                                            t:.. 2/?
                                                                                               ;J
                                                                                               3
                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                            ?
                                                                                                                      /.1
                                                                                                                      ~
                                                                                                                             /JO        ao
                                                                                                                            fl. 9 2/U -Y/.5
                                                                                                                                                 /J/J
                                                                                                                                                             ertain Boubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certin Doubtfu Total Certain Doobtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                 2,
                                                                                                                                                                  ?,
                                                                                                                                                                              tJ
                                                                                                                                                                             .3
                                                                                                                                                                                        :Z.      f.l
                                                                                                                                                                                         59./ /ft 2'7. 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                         /11?      9.1      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .J'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ✓
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Q ? ✓ '7. / f.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            // ..1/.0 ~5 -4',?.t,
        ?·Aircraft                :ltJ         5.? 7£ //. 9 IOI 22.P                            r1         0       /J        tl.tJ      ,?/}     /1/J             I          .J'        ,/ 14-'5" /.?.? 1-?.2               5"        :z.    7' //,? ✓.11 /t. 7

I       Hight Ph-.
        4-Birds
        S-Cloud~ Dus~ •k          ✓
                                   ;,;
                                    :z_
                                                ,/
                                                   2,,
                                                   !I
                                                              s
                                                      /. t, /2,. 2-4'
                                                          4 /'J L /1 /. /.Z
                                                          7 ,:?. a? .3./
                                                                                                cl
                                                                                               /)

                                                                                                0
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                        /J

                                                                                                       t)
                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                      ,?

                                                                                                                      /7
                                                                                                                             tP.tJ at? tJ.O
                                                                                                                             ,.,,, tJ./J (?.t)
                                                                                                                             tJ.o tJtJ tJ.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                  /J

                                                                                                                                                                  ,?
                                                                                                                                                                      /
                                                                                                                                                                             tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                 /
                                                                                                                                                                                 /
                                                                                                                                                                                        I       /lt:J
                                                                                                                                                                                        :z.. ✓..:: 14.'G"
                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,,/,;
                                                                                                                                                                                                        ~t?
                                                                                                                                                                                       t? I "'1tJ tJ.0 tJ.C?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  L(,<      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /J

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Cl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             t?    '? /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I? 0.t:J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /7 lltJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /1.,:7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /J/J

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            tJ.tJ LIO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /J/J


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     t20

        6-lnsutfic.lnfo.         2.6'                    25 'f.t tJ.tJ f.t.                    /)                  tJ        /J/J       /J.O    ao                4'        0          ¥" 11:Z tJ.tl /~2                    5      C?        ,;    //.9    ,fl,O     //9


I
                                                /]                                                     /'}

                                                                                                                                                                                        cl t7.L7 ao L7.L7
                                    '
        7•Psycholoeical                            0          ,:    tJ,tJ I i
                                                                    / f?                        /)     /J         t?         /JO        ✓?_n    (l.t?             /)        0                                               tJ    0          0     Ll.CJ    /?/J     acJ
        8-Unknown                l.,t,         tJ        t,? ftJ.t. tJ.tJ 2tJ.2                 2.     tJ         ~         !lf?.t.     /}_tJ   n.1..             P..         {J        z f l t?.O                 fl./     f?    t:J         I?   l~O     /7 ,:J    IP.CJ
    9-0ther                          K         7          / 5 2.d ?,/ ds                       /)      /J          ,:J       /J/J       /J.(?   /1(?              /]         -?..      L. 40              ?I       Q./      I     0          I     :1.Q    17,t)     :f.//



I          Total               211 ft. S2"1 7/Jt, :Zf!✓ /tJtl.                                 5'      2.,         ~        1'/4' 21, /OP-                   /2,            /cJ       2Z !,;-.,/6 l-~5 /a/                 !I      ?        ✓:z '7'£?      2./.,/ la?.




I            Evaluation
        0-Balloon
                                            tmmber
                                                         /v.50
                                                              Per Cent
                                Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                    7'             ~         9 11...7 ✓i' 2/,5
                                                                                                     Number
                                                                                                                ,95/
                                                                                                                           Per Cent
                                                                                              ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                f           ,:J       3 IU              OJJ /f.t,
                                                                                                                                                                    Number
                                                                                                                                                                                      /<J52,,
                                                                                                                                                                                          Per Cent                Number                PerCeol
                                                                                                                                                             ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total Certain Doubtful Tot~

                                                                                                                                                                 21         /,/ 1,;- //J.9 7.1 1Lt

I       I-Astronomical
        2•Aircraft
        3-LightPham.
                                  ·4 .J'
                                   f'
                                   0
                                              ,<
                                              0
                                                             1 9.5' '7.I II...?
                                                         / l 119. tJ //.? .Ytl.9
                                                             0 ,?./J        /J/J      /JtJ
                                                                                                /
                                                                                                d
                                                                                                /J
                                                                                                           .J
                                                                                                            /
                                                                                                           /J
                                                                                                                      fl ✓.5" l£t di ?/J
                                                                                                                      ~d2 ,/.,. 221 .ZI
                                                                                                                      t7    t?o ,?/)
                                                                                                                             l]t)                                 //
                                                                                                                                                                            /f J j /ti.~ 1...£ ,11
                                                                                                                                                                            n, u.1' ltJ.9 I//.<!> t'2.9
                                                                                                                                                                              f             1 2.1 /. t             ?'7
        4•Birds                     tJ         t?            0 /)/)          A/1      /1/J      /J      Cl         tJ /J.t) tl./7 /l,/.J                              /          I      ,2, tJ_~ 17.~ /.t:J


I       5-Clouds. Dust. etc.
        6-insuffi~ ~ID-
        l•PsydlOloeical
                                    /./
                                   5"
                                   ,;;
                                               /J
                                              /)

                                              tJ
                                                             "'0/7
                                                              ,;- If.?
                                                                   /JO //. 9
                                                          {J ,,o ao 'tJ.O
                                                                         tlt?
                                                                            /),?                t?
                                                                                                ?.
                                                                                                /7
                                                                                                        /J
                                                                                                        tJ
                                                                                                        t?
                                                                                                                  t:J /J./1  /J.O t?.CJ
                                                                                                                    g f./ ,?/1 Y. I
                                                                                                                   t? ao tJO tJ_ tJ
                                                                                                                                                                  ,,
                                                                                                                                                                  LI

                                                                                                                                                                  ..
                                                                                                                                                                             j
                                                                                                                                                                             /7
                                                                                                                                                                              /J
                                                                                                                                                                                         1 2../ /.o, 3.7
                                                                                                                                                                                            1 //.'f
                                                                                                                                                                                            t   .1'/
                                                                                                                                                                                                         /)./J
                                                                                                                                                                                                         /}_t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  f{7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .?I
                                  ,.-                                                                              t ?/J 'l/1 2-a                                                     d.? .fVI th:J 22-'I
        8-tinldlown                           tJ          < //. 9 /'.le? //.9                   L:      tJ                                                   .t/J
                                                                                                                                                                 ,,          0

I   9-0lhe<


    i      Total
                                   ,?




                                 j_fi
                                             .5           j ' /Jt} '7./ ~/

                                             /3 d!!- ~fl) .?It? /(70.
                                                                                               ,?,


                                                                                              /$
                                                                                                       t?          2. I?/ /J.IJ 9/

                                                                                                       ,t/ ?2, l.f/.i" 1ft IP().                         l.!4
                                                                                                                                                                                 ?,
                                                                                                                                                                                            7   ? '

                                                                                                                                                                           5! lfZ t9.S .!oi /tJQ.
                                                                                                                                                                                                         /.tJ     ..J'.t




I                                                                                                                                   191

I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                  ,.,_   ,1/~L '',,-,!JbS
                                                         PerCmt               NUlllber
                                                                                               /tf</7
                                                                                                ,
                                                                                                    Per Cent
                                                                                                                                 /


                                                                                                                                 Number
                                                                                                                                               /?, ,:;,-
                                                                                                                                                             Per Cent         Number
                                                                                                                                                                                              /?~,P
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Per Cert
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
         Enluation
    0-Bollaon
    I-Astronomical
                        Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total ~ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                          J'J'
                         /.I/
                                   ,:/2     ?f t/f'
                                   6f IN /t,J
                                                            §:/
                                                            J{t)
                                                                    u
                                                                   24-1      /.J
                                                                                 I       tJ
                                                                                         I
                                                                                                 I 5Z t?tJ
                                                                                               /Q l-0:9    f.Z
                                                                                                                  f.2.
                                                                                                                 //£/
                                                                                                                         ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Ooobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                           .J'
                                                                                                                           .z         41
                                                                                                                                         ?      I.

                                                                                                                                                "
                                                                                                                                                      ?,Q'      P.4' I/LK
                                                                                                                                                   I!..! /t.5 llf.f .f.t
                                                                                                                                                                                  t?      0
                                                                                                                                                                                         ~L
                                                                                                                                                                                                 tJ /7.t? ,?. tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                            5.t' .J✓.o 'J?.7 /./.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LJ.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
    2-Aircrift            7-S-
                                             ,
                                   5'! IJ .J I.I,           ?.4' l't~         /          I        1, ..f.:2- t..Z I,.¢     4          ,:J       ✓ /2.5 tl.tl vu;       1                  R /!, '/.Q" JZ5 /5 9
    3-LiptPtlenom.
4•Birds
$-Clouds, Dus~ elc.
                            9
                            L
                            ,;-
                                    0
                                    I
                                    0
                                              7
                                                   1./
                                                  17 f'


                                                  ,.,_,
                                            5 tU, /J/J t:J.b
                                                            /J(l
                                                            d.l
                                                                     II
                                                                   /J. <1
                                                                             0
                                                                             I?
                                                                             0
                                                                                         /)


                                                                                         0
                                                                                         0
                                                                                                ,?    t?tl 4t7 I"20
                                                                                                 ~ /Jt? t?tJ ao
                                                                                                /J /Jn /1/J 1'20
                                                                                                                          3'_

                                                                                                                           t?
                                                                                                                           ,,, ,,
                                                                                                                                      /J
                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                ?_

                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                               /?
                                                                                                                                                      t..f
                                                                                                                                                     do
                                                                                                                                                     tl.t?
                                                                                                                                                                t?.O l,.f
                                                                                                                                                               1 / 1/
                                                                                                                                                               ,?./J     nn
                                                                                                                                                                                  n
                                                                                                                                                                                   /,



                                                                                                                                                                                   tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                         I?
                                                                                                                                                                                         /J
                                                                                                                                                                                         t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                   t1.0 "7.t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                   /J./7 /J.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                0 /?.t? LJ. Cl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   t:1-0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   l?.t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (?.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
      __
    &-lnsuffic. Into.
    ._7-Psydlolo&ical
                        /t:)9
                           2.,
                                    t:J ;t:79
                                     2..
                                                    -?" It. 9
                                            ;/ ltl! ,? :I /U,
                                     0 /y/ fK{I /}.A 2¥-¢
                                                                             //
                                                                             I
                                                                                         0
                                                                                         0
                                                                                                ,/ 111.f/ ,117 JJ.f/
                                                                                                 / f.Z at? f.2.
                                                                                                I. 1,.., ✓, tlO /!.¢
                                                                                                                           7
                                                                                                                           /J        0
                                                                                                                                      /J       1 21.9 at1 21.9
                                                                                                                                                0 t;1./J tl./J o.p
                                                                                                                                                I, /ff t?O It'.!
                                                                                                                                                                                  ;'
                                                                                                                                                                                   /J
                                                                                                                                                                                   (,
                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                t ~G Cl.CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0 ✓1.t? t?-0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 I,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    f<.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   'o.t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                      £.(/ ,?.,:J /,,.s/   I
    ~tlrer
                        /9/
                         4'f        II 5"<1 -<:5"           ;q 1..9
                                                                             (,

                                                                             ..?
                                                                                         0
                                                                                         0      .1 t/1 tl.tJ f.7
                                                                                                                           (,
                                                                                                                           ,:J
                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                     0          0 t:?.t? t?-t:J ao                 ,, CJ        7     ~LI ,?.t? 7. LI


I       Total           l, ✓19    /71: ,;-lfn 1h L2! /a!                    2.9         fl,    .?/ lff.5 t.5 /00.        ,2(/        R        '12 I ,;-.c,:, 250 /t)t)_          t.tJ   .?fl   N' t,f.fl _%.Z /ti?.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
         Evaluation
                                Number
                                           /95t?
                                                      Per Cent                Number
                                                                                               /95'/
                                                                                                    Percent
                        Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtllrl Total
                                                                                                                                Nun>er
                                                                                                                                              19'5"2.
                                                                                                                                                      PerCerl                  Number               PerCerl
                                                                                                                         ertain Doublful Total Certain Doubtful Total Celtllia Doublfu Total Certain Doobllul Total
                                                                                                                          ,,,,, 5'J ~j 1..£ 1..I HP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
    0-Blllooa             ✓         ,;  &, ✓-7 u' 11                         /J          :t,    2, 4 ✓? .1.1, .?.t
    1-A-ical
    1-Airtraft
    3-Li&htl'llfnam.
                         19
                           //
                           /J
                                    4' 23 11.! ~7 21.ll
                                    R /9 11.9 9.g tt ..7
                                    t?        tJ ,-1.0 /J.O 00
                                                                            /?
                                                                                 2.-
                                                                                 .2..
                                                                                          (,
                                                                                         2,
                                                                                         CJ
                                                                                               ;,( 2/.S /~9 Jt.7
                                                                                                ,t/   .U f t
                                                                                                 2, ~I, /JtJ f.t
                                                                                                                         51
                                                                                                                   12 !itJ
                                                                                                                           ,,
                                                                                                                                     $2-
                                                                                                                                     Q~

                                                                                                                                         t7
                                                                                                                                               ,t,;- /tJ.9 ✓
                                                                                                                                              Sf /tJ5 /{tJ /~f
                                                                                                                                                5 /.tl.
                                                                                                                                                            .5

                                                                                                                                                                tl.t:7
                                                                                                                                                                         15.<I

                                                                                                                                                                         /.ll
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
    4-Birds                t)                tJ         /J.O /?.1)            tJ         CJ     t? tl.O 0.0 0.0     (,                           I, /:2,                 /.2,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                    I)           /J./1                                                                                0                         00
    ~Cloud~ Dus~ etc.      t?       /J        /} 0/J   011 IJtJ                  /)     0       /J  ~,., tJ.O     ao ✓-                  tJ      ,< /./J       /?.t)     1tJ
    6-lnsuffic.tnfo.        t;     0          9 ///.(, tJ.tJ /tl.t           4          t7      ,t/   u  0. tJ '7S 'f7                0        'f7 l/~li' OCJ l!f:I
    7-Psycholo1ical         0       tJ       tl IJ./} /J./) O.IJ             /          0        / 1.t ,fltJ /.f    17                ~         2, /1.tJ /J.u ,?.q
                                    0      n      1.1.I ,.,,,, 211                             If 2</5 O.tJ Jt/5 /.Jf                         /.I/ 2t.9 /7.tJ 11,J

                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
    8-Unkno111           1..:J                                              /lj          0                                            0
    ~l!ler                  ,,     z,        ,:;- f.5 tJ.I ~9                's-         L)     5' ?./ o.tJ y_ f ~5                   9        .?~ 5./ /.f 1..9

        Total            ., r      /t     'I, 191-~ di I/IJO.               -'/5        /tJ    ,:;-,;- !/.I Jf.1. It?~   :1t1.. /(),( ~$1 I 'ff.ti 21." VtJO.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                          192
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
I
I
I
                                                                                     EvAL 1/Ar;LJI//                    tJE       //,1//r            OGlfTIAIGS                                                           Y€d£S
                                                                                     .QV  SH""''                        t?F         /1,tl.     ~1-r                                  ELL                  ..



I
             Enluation
        l).S,lloon

    II-Astronomical
                               /27
                               /:!,I) 122-
                                            -Au                    ~ C,1£'S
                                                             Per Cent
                               Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total

                                              ff9 tit //J.-?
                                                           272 /2.1, /tl..r 22.9
                                                                                 r.s /<? t            ~
                                                                                                       lj
                                                                                                            Number

                                                                                                               t)
                                                                                                                        /'IL/-;?



                                                                                                                          ,,
                                                                                                                                  Per Cent
                                                                                                     ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total

                                                                                                                       e" tP.O ~~ 1'
                                                                                                               ,/ 1.1 111..1 :(7 250 /,2,.
                                                                                                                                                                      Number
                                                                                                                                                               ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total Certain Doubtful Tota

                                                                                                                                                                          $
                                                                                                                                                                         /"
                                                                                                                                                                                       /~df
                                                                                                                                                                                            Percent


                                                                                                                                                                                       /!> ,,,_ / 11.t, 217
                                                                                                                                                                                      :t.'7 1:7. <I :2/.7' 1~ /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Number


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ✓
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Pei Cent


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /4dll



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    t     .I/..     /.ff
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         d..1 ,,-.z, ,</7 ..1r.✓ ///n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,r:q

        2•Ai,craft             /.f,I?       1/K            2,:,r; If 9 ~p V.3                          /       /          :Z, 1.4        1.()        5-f         f,       /J             6 j'. '7 t?.t:J Jr.-?                    1'       5' I~          /..2,     .✓
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .s ltJ.7'
                                                                                                                                ..f.% do                                                 .i' 120 4..f i ¢.'.1                                       ,., Cl.o .!1.t:J tl.t:J
I
        J.liat>t Phenom.         /t{,        /!,            .J'/ /.f /.1 2.t                          ?        t)        :t.,                        .J',$       /J      .J'                                                       /}      t)
        4•Birds                   y              d          1:2 17.':I a.1 /.t?                        /}     .n          /}    /f/J ,.,,,, la,:,                /J       I             /       ,?_,?      /Q '/.✓                1'.      t:J      ?, /. .r ,.,,.,            Lf
        Hlouds, Dus~ etc.          tJ         ...1             j /)/] /J..1 as                         t?      (}         ./J   120 £}(? tJ.t:J                  /J      I)             /J      /7.n       ✓?.0        /J/1       (}       tJ       I)    /:J.O     /,J.t:J    ,?.t:J
        6-lnsuffic. Info.                                              /1/1 f'. J'                                                                                                      ~                              51-,      IP                /9 17.t? '?,., n:,:,
                               /I/             0           /// P.1
                                              r ,23 /.$ tl.7' .t.t:J                                  "        /J         L     /f.!fi t).t:J 11/.6
                                                                                                                                                                 "/
                                                                                                                                                                          t)                    %7         ,/JC)                           0



I                                                                                                                         ✓ 5.f ~f ,;,1,                                                I 1 ✓ LJ. CJ
        7-Psydlllo&ical          /!,                                                                  1'.     1'.                                                         (:J                                          /.Q        f,       t?        2, U' ,?./J I.ff
        l,tJnknown             ~2.:)          C? 220 Ii'~ t?.0 /~/;                                   g'      t)         f 115.<I (20 /!,.<I                     7        /}            7 /el.I Clt:J                  /,/)_/    16        /}      /G, 1141.! /7() ;d:r
        ~111..                  .J'y"            ;'          ✓-2 29 ti. 7' J.t                       d,        tJ       /2, .n.1 (2() 21'./                     2-       I             J        ?.9        /.<t        4. ~      ...1      t')      .! !1.1         ,,,., f!.'7'

I           Total              fi.J ..!t,'7 //f,? ~9.i 5cJ.i /{}{}. ,/5                                       7 ;z ls?.(-6 H.5 10a                             4/       f'.$ /49 !if.,, lu,:?./, /(:Jt).                        t,2,     50       //2, !7,!,.9 ✓flt /tb




I            Evaluation
        0-Balloon
                                            Numbe,
                                                           /{, ,.-t:J
                                                             Pe, Cent                Number                Per Cent
                                                                                                                         /0 - / .


                               Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Dooblful Total
                                 , tJ           I   /I 11.J I:! 1/£1                                  4            I      511/J.t 2.1 /15 '17'
                                                                                                                                                                        Nulmer
                                                                                                                                                                                     /95?-
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Per Cent                       Numbei
                                                                                                                                                               ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu Total Certain Doobtful Tota
                                                                                                                                                                         -?'7 ,~,, //. 5 ?. 2, ff/J.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PerCmt




I       I-Astronomical
        2-Aircraft
        l-Li&flt Phenom.
        I-Birds
                                 /0
                                  II


                                   (J
                                      t'}     0
                                              0
                                               ,;I 1✓ 121 51 11.5
                                               2, 1.! /J' 9 ~5 It{(
                                                     t:J 12,:J /1 tJ /2(:J
                                                    ,?   tJ.tJ /,J.tJ t:?.0
                                                                                                       f,'
                                                                                                       ;/
                                                                                                       /J
                                                                                                       ,'}
                                                                                                               1,,


                                                                                                               /
                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                         /tJ   2/t 5.,/ 121.0 ,,,,:z_
                                                                                                                          5 117.ff 2.1 11.!.5' /1.J
                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                ""
                                                                                                                            / ''4.0
                                                                                                                                       ?.1 ?.7 ;c/
                                                                                                                                      ?."/ :1.7'   t,
                                                                                                                                                                         ;;;/
                                                                                                                                                                         /nt]
                                                                                                                                                                             /,c° ;(. I.!. I

                                                                                                                                                                             22.:Z /J,/ 13.0 tt.~
                                                                                                                                                                          // '2~ J.1 /, $ 1t?
                                                                                                                                                                             2,
                                                                                                                                                                                             t,.p lff.5


                                                                                                                                                                                           If /J.-1        tl.i tJP

I       ~Clouds. Dust, etc.
        6-lnsuffit.lnfo.
        7-Psychological
        &-Unknown
                               15
                                   1J


                                   2..
                                 '20
                                              (:J
                                              /)

                                              0
                                                    0 /.20 de? ao
                                                   /!i /?,) t?.t:J 110
                                                     2, 2,"5 /J./7 ?.">
                                              ,;J 20 26.J ,,;,.,:, 25.:!
                                                                                                       /J
                                                                                                       ✓
                                                                                                       /]
                                                                                                              I)

                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                           /)   /J.IJ 17./J 11)(2
                                                                                                                          ✓ /(J.f tltJ ltJ.f t,/
                                                                                                                           /    IJ/J 2.7 2-'7

                                                                                                                         ,,,J 11t? Cltl ~to 15.f
                                                                                                                                                   /J


                                                                                                                                                   J?
                                                                                                                                                                          a
                                                                                                                                                                          5
                                                                                                                                                                          t)
                                                                                                                                                                             .s             3   cJ.(2
                                                                                                                                                                                       t i 13 t).0 1,.1
                                                                                                                                                                                       13 /.t:J tJ.? /.t
                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,v/ tJ.,/


                                                                                                                                                                                      15.f /ff. 'I &.tJ lff.f
                                                                                                      /0       0


I   I
        9-0lller


            Tot~
                                  t.

                                1' /)            9
                                                     2..      ,/ f5 2.~ 5."(J

                                                            1f 1trr.r:, ;/.✓ /tJt/
                                                                                                      /)



                                                                                                     .?o
                                                                                                              0

                                                                                                               -?
                                                                                                                          0 t2t? t?t:J tJ. (} / ~

                                                                                                                        .57'
                                                                                                                                                                         5            20 / f tJ.6 .t4

                                                                                                                                ~II l!f.lJ ltJti. 5'1s 1.t,t, .(L/1 IL!l'.<:1 fl,(, /tl(J.


I                              Vl&E                      l11Jf

                                                     ,4,_,_            f/ec~,e.,·
                                                                                     £ V-"lt. tlll L«241
                                                                                     /.Ju'           ~UA~&
                                                                                                                         t2F
                                                                                                                        OP
                                                                                                                        /9-9"7
                                                                                                                                    //,1//r
                                                                                                                                     /J6'J.h'. -r ,
                                                                                                                                                       S/GftT(ll/6 S
                                                                                                                                                                 ROt!KFr
                                                                                                                                                                                     ;t;d,f'
                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,,,,.,,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   YE&,es
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,,,,,,,.,.,..Fr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /~,/p
    I                                  Number                Per Cent                Number                Per Cent                Number                Per Cent                Number                                                                         PerCmt



I            Evaluation
        0.Balloon
        1-Astnmomical
        2•Aircraft
                               Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu

                                  ..1
                                  3
                                 2./          -?3
                                                     :2.
                                                     i        //
                                                                  t; 2.4
                                                                        ?.t/ ,:, ✓ ff.$
                                                              +!'I /1,,.f !DI Ht
                                                                                  I(,        1/,tJ
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                        /J         0
                                                                                                                   I)

                                                                                                                   t)
                                                                                                                          tJ /J./J       /} / )

                                                                                                                          /J tJ.t:J /{/J l,?/J
                                                                                                                          (:J ,?.t:J ,?./J c?.l'J
                                                                                                                                                      /J./J      tJ
                                                                                                                                                                 tJ
                                                                                                                                                                 5
                                                                                                                                                                          ~
                                                                                                                                                                             (}


                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                        tJ       ,'J,I)      /}(2 l,:;>tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                         :t., 0.0 /,(:!, IIA':L
                                                                                                                                                                                        L ,y-5~ 9./ l:,9.'5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           t)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Total Certain Doobtful Total

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          71
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /2,1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              o.. tJ :ti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7- I 7. I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    J' /4'..f ~I 2/<I

I       3-LightPhenom.
        4-Birds
        5-Clouds. Oust. etc.
        6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
                                      ?.

                                      0
                                       /)        0
                                                 I
                                                     I            .f /.~
                                                                  t7 /J.(}
                                                               I tJ.[}
                                                             /0 .f {/;1,.,  i'tJ
                                                                                 IJ.{/
                                                                                 /J. tl

                                                                                 o.S
                                                                                             24
                                                                                             /J.O
                                                                                             /J.~
                                                                                                        ,;
                                                                                                        /J
                                                                                                       /J
                                                                                                                I)

                                                                                                               I)
                                                                                                                   0     t)
                                                                                                                          /J

                                                                                                                          tJ
                                                                                                                          t)
                                                                                                                                /7/J

                                                                                                                                /J.tJ /:J. tJ
                                                                                                                                /JO
                                                                                                                                         17./1


                                                                                                                                         /:J./:J
                                                                                                                                                      /J/7
                                                                                                                                                      ,,,,.,
                                                                                                                                                     16'.0
                                                                                                                                          ,,, ,., /J.t:J
                                                                                                                                                                 I)



                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                  /J      0
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                          (:J
                                                                                                                                                                             cJ         tJ /J.O
                                                                                                                                                                                        /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                /J,/J /J. 0
                                                                                                                                                                                           /10 tJ.C? {2/J
                                                                                                                                                                                        0 /J.tJ 0.0 c7.t:J
                                                                                                                                                                                           I 9./           t}.IJ        f/ I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,:}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /}




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /40 /20 tJ.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ~,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /J. tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2. 11✓.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /7.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     t?.o Oti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               L?./)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               /,/.f
                                 ;;-?            0                                                      0      0                t:!CJ                             I                                                                        ti                       17./J


I       7-Psychological
        8-Unkno"'
        9-0ther
                                 37
                                      1

                                      (,
                                              CJ
                                                 0
                                                 /
                                                              1 5'(, tJ.tJ 5,t,
                                                             11 N.t tl.() 29.t
                                                              1 ✓f ai 1.;:t,
                                                                                                       t?

                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                        (,
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                              C?
                                                                                                                         I) IL?. 0 t:.J.ti t2 CJ
                                                                                                                          6 /t7tJ.t) t?tJ. /OPO
                                                                                                                          /)    t,/J      /20         /JO
                                                                                                                                                                 0


                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                          D
                                                                                                                                                                          /J
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                        ti
                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                            /
                                                                                                                                                                                                /Jt)
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Y./
                                                                                                                                                                                                11 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                           CJ.CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                           /JtJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        f.l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       q/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I '71 tJ.t:J 1: I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     t, ld/9 0.t) ld?.tr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    C?    /:J.(2     t:J.t:J   0.t:J




I           Tot~                Ji' y        'i' (, /25' 1/t 1!.i                         w.           (,      /}         t 1/t?ao           /J(:J   ica         %           3         II '12.7 '27,f /t?(J.                     /2,       2.     /<I' IJ/'~.7 / ~ j ' la?.




I            Evaluation
        0.Balloon
                                       Numbei
                                                            /?5"t:J
                                                             Per Cent
                               Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful ToW
                                      I          0                 I ,111 /) tJ /l•tJ
                                                                                                            NIDllber
                                                                                                                        If'§/
                                                                                                                                Per Cent
                                                                                                     ertain Doubtful Tow Certain Doubtful Total

                                                                                                      tl           I       I ~/) t>-J'                G:3
                                                                                                                                                                      Number
                                                                                                                                                                                       1?5".Z,
                                                                                                                                                                                            Per Cent                Number                Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                               ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total Ceitain Doubtful Tota

                                                                                                                                                                  I              I       :t 1.5" ;.,; .?.a


I                                                                                                                                                                            ?           5 ~.,, 4£" 7.5'
        I-Astronomical                 I         2,               .3 /I I 11.1 j'J.1                   (}      t?         0      ,'J_/J tJ.t?         t?.t?       ,f,
        2•A1maft                      ,,         0                /}     ✓7,t}    /Jt? tJ.t)           s       q          fl l-11.J ?! I 147.'I/                  q      11            .2t, I.U 2~.i J'N
        3-LightPh«IOm.             /~            (:J              ,?     ti. tJ tJ,O         o.o     • /J      (:J       ,:J    /Jt:J         el.CJ
                                                                                                                                             /J,/J               ';,_        I              j    '?.i:J    /,5 id_.;
        4-Birds                    0             0                ,?    (}0      "17         0.0       /J      a          (:J   17/J     /J.O /JtJ                ,,         tJ         0       /J.t:J     /J.o '/J,(:J


I       ~Clouds, Dus~ etc.
        6-lnsuffic. -.to.
        7-Psydlllo&ical
                                   6
                                   I
                                   0
                                              (J

                                              (:J
                                                 (:J           I)



                                                               (:J
                                                                  I
                                                                        ao
                                                                        //_/
                                                                         /),,
                                                                                  (}.tJ (:J.t}
                                                                                  /7 0 //./
                                                                                 tJ tJ 0.,0
                                                                                                       ti
                                                                                                       2.
                                                                                                       CJ
                                                                                                              a
                                                                                                               C?

                                                                                                              t1
                                                                                                                          a t?.O at?
                                                                                                                         :?. !//,15° C2tJ 1/tJ.5
                                                                                                                         C 12t:J tUl OtJ
                                                                                                                                                      ,1/J       /)

                                                                                                                                                                 d
                                                                                                                                                                 /4
                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                             t)
                                                                                                                                                                             (:J
                                                                                                                                                                                         I tJ.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                        ✓ LI
                                                                                                                                                                                        ~        f./
                                                                                                                                                                                                           /.~ /.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                          /J.O £.,/
                                                                                                                                                                                                            ac f./
        11-llnlulo..,            .J'          a                .? 5H 4(2 ?2.J                          f,     C?          I,    51,,:,   '<,?        ;'/,,r;   /§         0           15 :22-1 t). t) 2;2.7


I       ~111..


            Total
                                  /


                                  1'
                                             0


                                              12,             f
                                                                        /I.I     /?t} //./


                                                                       11H 21.2. voa                 1./
                                                                                                        I     /)




                                                                                                               5        /9
                                                                                                                          I     51 /J.c? !,.~

                                                                                                                                11."I 2t.J /t?tJ.
                                                                                                                                                                  1       I

                                                                                                                                                               ,/2, £;/ tt ,Ht, 5t4 /t}tJ.
                                                                                                                                                                                            <,/ d.5"       /.5 /.. /J




I                                                                                                                                        193

I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                        ·rtMt.E


                                        r.Jmbe!
                                                   tl 1.15'
                                                   llit.,
                                                       Per Cent
                                                                 Ve,,_.,
                                                                               Ev,?L //fil1/t?dl
                                                                               l'f(,/


                                                                               Hudler
                                                                                              S-"'--'~~
                                                                                                '"


                                                                                                     Per Cent
                                                                                                                        t?E
                                                                                                                       /JC

                                                                                                                            1'1,/7
                                                                                                                                           f/AIIT
                                                                                                                                           ~ A J~I!,    r                              _,o/.'Er€, _.,.,


                                                                                                                                                                                              Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ...,,.&u£.'"cs..___ _ _ _ _ _ __
                                                                                                                                                         Sf~Guli~T,__,_fa,,.'tc..G....S:..__~&"'%!~,e~~l'l=?.,1-~__,0,..'E


                                                                                                                                                                        Number
                                                                                                                                                                                             /?y'r?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         _,,_,


                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,-_,,~ ~ r


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ;9,:/~                                  I
     Evaluation          Certain Ooubttul Total Certain Doubtful Tobl !Certain Ooubttul Total Certain Do-I Total                                                 ertain Ooubttul Total Certain OoubUul Tobl Certain Doobtful Total Certain Ooubttul Toi~
 ~Balloon
 1-Astrooomical
12-Aitcraft
                          .:/I
                               ,2_


                               2..
                                            (}


                                           2,
                                                2. ~- /.. OJJ ?.,L
                                          2./ 1,2, 5'.19 27.t ~5
                                                d 2. /,, ?. /. 5'.:?.                                                                 I.
                                                                                                                                                                  ✓
                                                                                                                                                                  t7
                                                                                                                                                                     (}


                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                      tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                      ✓
                                                                                                                                                                                               tJ IJ.t)        ao
                                                                                                                                                                                               f' LM_/J d,?JJ 1.-;1;7
                                                                                                                                                                                               tJ LJ.tJ tJ.tl 't?.a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,, ,.,                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LJ        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    f,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            tl.tl tJ.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           HI~ '11_,/ $5".7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /,<(}     1'70
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,t/.t)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LJ.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                       V


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
~Light Phenom.                  tJ          I   I /J /J /..1 /. ~                                                                                                    /}           tJ           /)  /J_/1 O.t? t;l.tJ                           /)       0           ;?/JC tJ /J ,:J. tJ
i-Birds                            ,,      I    I ,,_,, /. .1 /. ~
                                                                                                                                '                                    0            tJ          /}  /JC c?tJ tJ. t7                              LJ         I       . / /J_n ///.J ;.(g
5-Clouds. Oust, etc.               0        0           0        /] ,1    ,1 /J 100                                    (\                                            cl           0           0   /J.11 1.7.tJ /J_/1                          l'7        tJ        /;)     /J_n      /J,/J    /J n
                                                                                                                       V
6-lnsuffic. Info.               I          ,-?              I     /. 7      /..1'
                                                                           /J./J                                   \                                                 /J           0           0 /J.O /J,/J 0.(J                              tJ         tJ         tJ       /J.t?    tJ.t}    /.J.O
                                                                                                                   ~
                                                            o    ao /J.r1 II'! ti                                                                                                             tl ltJ.O tJt) IJ(J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
7-Psydloloaical                /}          0                                                                                                                         /J           0                                                           /)        0          0       /J_ t?    /J,/J    /20
8-Unlcnolln                5'              0                ,;- ti.        /} /}   I.G. t                                                                            :,,           0          £ !tao tJ.tl UJ.O                              tJ         tJ         0       no t?. l'J 1'20
9-0ttler                       0          0             0        ,?,/J /J.O                                                                                          ,?            CJ         0                    1'7.tl         a~         0          0                  oo /JO             /J /J
                                                                                    "'"                                                                                                                  (?./2                                                     0

    Total                  57 25' 1/4 &7.1 .f.t.9 ~~                                                                                                                 h            'I /0 u:10 'tb.tJ 10a                                       I         6         7' /,/J %5:1 100.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
      Evaluation
 ~Balloon
                                 Number
                                                        1t?s-o
                                                       Per Cent                Number                Per Cent
                                                                                                                       /t?:,/
                                                                                                                             Nuntier               Per Cent                Number
                         Certain Ooubllul Total Certain Ooubllul Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Oooblfil Total Certain Ooubttul Total Certain Ooubttul Total Certain Oo-
                                   I
                                             0              I 5"/J./J /J.!? 5"t!o                    1?            0         0       /'/11     0/J /1.I?            ,;J.tJ /. $'
                                                                                                                                                                         /            0
                                                                                                                                                                                              /t?52,,


                                                                                                                                                                                                   I    i !?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PerCmt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Tobl Certain Doubttul Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
 I-Astronomical
 2-Aircraft
l-Liit,tl'11-.
4-Birds
                            /
                            /,)

                            0
                                           tJ
                                           0
                                           0
                                                         I l,;°/J/J IJ.LJ 5/JJ

                                                            "
                                                              1,/J

                                                        /} /J.17
                                                                    tJ.tJ I? 11
                                                                     /?,., /J.O
                                                                  /J,/J    tJ. tJ t),tJ
                                                                                                     1J
                                                                                                     ,?
                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                               /)

                                                                                                               CJ
                                                                                                                   I        :l 5o./J 5(1.n /.,,,,_ f,/ I/ L/5' £/.i MO j'l.f
                                                                                                                            ,? /J.O tUJ lat?

                                                                                                                            11 IJ.t) O.IJ /J_n
                                                                                                                                                    2. -Z
                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                            1.7 l!'.111 0/J /lt? CJ /J
                                                                                                                                                        /
                                                                                                                                                            L/ .It .J't. 7.Z
                                                                                                                                                             I 120 /,ff I.ff
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                               cJ          0            ,?                                           /J        0                                           t:J 1111 /J_/) IJ.O
S-Clouds., Dust, etc.
6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
I-Psychological
                            0
                           (}
                            0
                                          0
                                           0


                                           0
                                                        ,?
                                                        l'7
                                                        /}
                                                                 /J. tJ / } , . , l?.O
                                                                 cUJ OtJ 00
                                                                 /J/J /J.tJ !}ti
                                                                                                     /}



                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                      ,,,      0
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                            /J 00 /J.t:J 0.0
                                                                                                                            0  0,/J tJ.O 1/./0
                                                                                                                            /J &O             ().CJ     /J.O
                                                                                                                                                                     tJ

                                                                                                                                                                     tJ
                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                      tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                              /}
                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                               LJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                        0./:l ,:;J.tJ /Jt:J
                                                                                                                                                                                                        /.f1
                                                                                                                                                                                                      '7.tJ tJ. tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,J,?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /J.tJ /.ff                                                                          I
8-Unknown                  0              0            17        /J.O      1?/J LJO                  tJ        0            0 an              /J.O     o.o           f            0           .J' 5.✓ t!t:J 5.,/
9-0ther


    Toi~
                           0

                          2.
                                          0

                                         c:J
                                                        IJ.      /J.t}


                                                       :2,, I/~,-,
                                                                          120       ti.()

                                                                           tJ. tJ ;,::ia
                                                                                                     I?


                                                                                                     /
                                                                                                             c?

                                                                                                                   I   g,
                                                                                                                            tJ !..aa           aa /Jn
                                                                                                                                    5'0./. I .:n./J .9c7.        L/1
                                                                                                                                                                     1:J          tJ           0 120 tJ. /J IJ. /}

                                                                                                                                                                                  1//' 5'5' ;ft(,: ?5.6                          l"'J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                     Au..        V"'"'-"'r
                                                                               ,!S'v            i\       A~=           ,?p

                                                                                                                       /tJ~7
                                                                                                                                       ./?A    •~/I-
                                                                                                                                                         ,
                                                                                                                                                                                  I    -
                                                                                                                                                                                               y,e
                                                                                                                                                                                             , _ ••


                                                                                                                                                                                             /?✓/?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t9?t-
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,,IL .,,r:,,o.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -             /'/?A-'/"' LJt:,_.         ,?£

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ;?,;ff'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         rE ,,, LJJ1"0.P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
I Evaluation                     Number                Per Cent                Number                Per Cent                Nuntler               Per Cent                Number              Per Celt

 ~Balloon
 I-Astronomical
                         Certain Ooobttul Total Certain Ooubllul Total Certain Ooubttul Total Certain Doubttul Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Ooubttul Total Certain Oouhttu Tobl Certain Doubllul Total
                          ?(,
                          /1
                                           d .J'tJ If t1 ?9 2/.9
                                          I.J .?t f.5 9.5' /jtJ
                                                                                                     l'7
                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                /J
                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                            /J /J.O      /7_/7
                                                                                                                             I tl.O /£.1 1£.1
                                                                                                                                              ,.,,.,                 .t
                                                                                                                                                                     ..J'
                                                                                                                                                                                      tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                      1)
                                                                                                                                                                                               2., 26'.u /2t'J
                                                                                                                                                                                               ..J' 51:5 ao H5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2C/.       ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5 55.t.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2.. 1,/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /?/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2;;7.?.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,CCC/

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4-,,_z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
 2·Aircraft               ,L.             1../ 2? /I. 7 9.-< 2/:Z                                    0         0            /)      tUJ       tJ./7    /J.O          /)             0             /J tJ.tJ          ,7.17 I/J/J               0          :z.       :2, /21?         ,,,,_?. 222
 3-Lithl Phenom.
 4-Birds
5-Clouds, Oust, etc.
                               /)



                               /)
                                   /
                                           /


                                           ?~
                                               I
                                                I t? 17 /J.,, /J. 1
                                                        $
                                                        2.
                                                                  ,? ,,

                                                                  /J. 0
                                                                          0. 7
                                                                           /.5
                                                                                     ;.¢'
                                                                                     /.5
                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                     /}
                                                                                                               LJ
                                                                                                               /J
                                                                                                               tJ
                                                                                                                            t? a tJ (l.tJ t!O
                                                                                                                            0 (JO /J.0 /20
                                                                                                                            /}       /?/}
                                                                                                                                          tJ.O/) /)
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                   0

                                                                                                                                                                                  tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                               t:J (JO IJ.O ao
                                                                                                                                                                                                I /2,5 ao /2,5
                                                                                                                                                                                                  /}     ~o ao 1/7.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I?        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    a Ll.0 ,?1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ;?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,.,_,., 0.0 ,,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           "!"       0.t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            tJ.O

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
 6-lnsuffic.lnto.         /j'             a            /f 9.5 0.tJ f.5                               :J.       0            i. .JJ.J tJ.O 5.t.J                      t:J            tJ        tJ 40 '1-" /10                                  0         0           0       /J.O      -'?-"   0/J
 7-PsycOOlogical
8-Unkoown
9--0ther
                           ,/
                          26
                               ?
                                           /J
                                           0
                                             I
                                                       ✓ 2.9 C2/J 2.9
                                                      2t 1ft; ti(} lfo
                                                       ¢ 1:Z 0.1 2.9
                                                                                                     /J
                                                                                                     ?,
                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                               0            CJ tJ.o ,? /) /10
                                                                                                                            1,,JJJ tJ.o ~JJ
                                                                                                                            I 11£. 7 0. cJ 1/./,.J
                                                                                                                                                                     tJ
                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                   LJ
                                                                                                                                                                                  tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                     0        0 ~o. tJ.tJ do
                                                                                                                                                                                               I /f,; t!tJ lf,5
                                                                                                                                                                                               I /1.!7 /JO ;t.5                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    t? t?.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   t:J tJ.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           t?.t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     at?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ao t:?.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              o.o

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
    Toi~                 /(} t.          ~c /.17 1,/5 !?55 /0.()                                     -5'       I            6 8'f.J /t.7 la:J.                       J{            t:J        ff /a:J.tl cJ.0 /0,?.                           5         ✓           y 5S:~ #.~ /00.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
     Evaluation
0-Balloon
                                        r.Jmbe!
                                                    /?5"t?
                                                       Per Cent               Number                Per Cent


                                                                                                               t)
                                                                                                                       /9S-/
                                                                                                                              Number


                                                                                                                                              ,? /1
                                                                                                                                                    Per Cent
                         Certain Ooubttul Total Certain OoubUul Total ~ertain Ooubtlul Tolal Certain Ooubttul Total J,;ertain Ooubttul Total Certain Ooubllul Total Certain Ooobllul Total Certain Ooubttul Total
                           .z,                              :J' IN 'I.I 21J                          z_                      -7 .11.J                  j'J'..f    /5
                                                                                                                                                                            Number


                                                                                                                                                                                      :f
                                                                                                                                                                                                  /<75':Z,
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Per Cent


                                                                                                                                                                                              IX Jt,_t;' 51 /Ji'.(,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                               /
 I-Astronomical
 2-Ancraft
3-Light Phenom.
4-Binls
                            IJ.

                            0
                               .J

                               0           0
                                              :2.
                                             t)
                                             t?
                                                            z
                                                            ;}
                                                                ,1,tJ ;j'?, 111.i
                                                            .? 211
                                                                  /? /)

                                                            0 l,J.tJ
                                                                           O.tJ 21.J

                                                                           ao
                                                                             1/J     /JtJ
                                                                                        /J./J
                                                                                                     I?
                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                     /7
                                                                                                     17
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                ,?

                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                             I


                                                                                                                            tJ
                                                                                                                            ,?
                                                                                                                                     O.tl l&.7 l~.7
                                                                                                                                     /J/J /7./J atJ
                                                                                                                                     /),1

                                                                                                                                    ,?./J
                                                                                                                                              /J.O
                                                                                                                                              /2,1
                                                                                                                                                       /J.t)
                                                                                                                                                    tJ.O
                                                                                                                                                                  /()
                                                                                                                                                                     ;J
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                   //
                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                       '1     11 ltJ.1
                                                                                                                                                                                              ;2,/ /f.U //.$
                                                                                                                                                                                                  I /J./7
                                                                                                                                                                                                  I -'?"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    r. 2, !U


                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /,11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2t/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
5-Clouds. Dusl, etc.
6-lnsutfic. •to.
7-Psydl>loaic:al           0
                            _g
                               /
                                   ·?
                                         0
                                          0
                                           1}           ,?
                                                            I
                                                            !?
                                                                  atJ t1,tJ
                                                                   ?.I t).tJ
                                                                                    11,0


                                                                  /J./J /J.IJ. lo. tJ
                                                                                        f.l
                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                     z
                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                               LJ
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                               ,.;;
                                                                                                                            0

                                                                                                                            /J
                                                                                                                                    t:J.o     i?.tl tJ.O
                                                                                                                            z ':?~.1 110. J'J..J
                                                                                                                                /2,:J t;l.tJ ao
                                                                                                                                              !?.I? ;t.7
                                                                                                                                                                   4
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                             ff
                                                                                                                                                                                       z
                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                       ,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                               2 /J.tl $./ 2./
                                                                                                                                                                                               f?' $t. t)./J 1£'.t


                                                                                                                                                                                              zo
                                                                                                                                                                                                u ✓.1 o.c? efl
                                                                                                                                                                                                   2tU, /J.O to.t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
8--Unknown                                tJ            2,,      /~2. tJ.tJ i1x.'i                   I         I?            I      /£. :'                        20                  ,?
9-0thet


    Total
                           /J


                           f
                                          0

                                          .1
                                                            /?    -'?"     !?./J lt?.O


                                                        II i12.1 11.J lt}tJ,
                                                                                                     /}



                                                                                                     ,,-
                                                                                                               tJ

                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                            0       aa t?tJ

                                                                                                                            h A'J.J /?,7 /OP.
                                                                                                                                                        11 /)



                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                     '71
                                                                                                                                                                             I         I       I ·/.0 /./J ~-0

                                                                                                                                                                                  21, '17 'f.U. 26-f /00.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I                                                   I
                                                                                                                                           194
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
I
11
                                            £ t,1/                                                               0wr
I
                          fllt.E                                           Et//l?l&Z:toal             t2r                          StG/t'Tt/1/Gs                         &,£'       d?L
                                                                           AF/       .s.=~AG           /Je           C?.i'J~47"
                                                                                                                              ,                                 ,CL"'"'~
                                               Au          lk,1s                                      /947                                                      d4f                                                        /f.;/9
                                     Numbef              Per Cent                Number                Percent                   Number                Percent                 Number                Percent
          Enh11tion        Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total J,,ertain Doubtful Total Certain 00.blful Total Certain Doobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total


I    0-Ballooo
     1-Astiunomical
     2-Aircraft
                              2
                            ¥(,
                             17
                                       .J'
                                      _gq
                                       It?
                                                      I, ~2_ 2.~ 14<'¢
                                                             1:7. (, 51_,;
                                                    "7/J ff.I(
                                                   2'/ 1/f.5 :7.9°' /9.9
                                                                                        /
                                                                                        I
                                                                                       IJ
                                                                                               0
                                                                                               tJ
                                                                                               t?
                                                                                                         I 5'?JO ao 6'tl.t?
                                                                                                         I 51!" ,:J,(1 5tl.P
                                                                                                        /] 17,/) t2 (1   120
                                                                                                                                           /}



                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                            ~          j
                                                                                                                                                         tJ

                                                                                                                                                          /
                                                                                                                                                                 /0 lu.f.l 1n ~2.1.
                                                                                                                                                                  /
                                                                                                                                                                   Cl tUJ tJ.tJ 10.0

                                                                                                                                                                         t)t) ,!,, .f         ,t.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                       t:J
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ~

                                                                                                                                                                                                       .t..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                              /0 /:L l/05 51.,(,, l,S.I
                                                                                                                                                                                                               /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .3 111?. !>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I.J.t} /J.O

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ;15.g'      ss
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      t).tJ



     3-Lijlll Pllenom.                    0           I C?'I -4tJ            /27                       0 I JJ.t:7 ,? ,,, '1"               /J                             /1/)                /}/)                          0                ,?,tJ t).tJ

I
                                I                                                      /]      /)                                                        /)        /}              ~/}                 /}      0                  /).tJ
     4-Birds                  t?          /           / I t?t? tJ.7 /2'/                /)     t?      IJ ti. (J t2t:J l&.O                0          0           0      (}CJtJ.O tJ.O                 t:J     0           0      IJ.O       /1,;J 0.0
     ~Clouds, Dus~ el~         /)         /)         t:J    ,?,?    /2C)     a/)       /J      /]      0     /JO      l?.t?   120          n          0           /J tJ.IJ l'J./J tJ.O                 /.?     0           /)     tJ.O       A.t) o.o
     6-lnsuffi~ Info.           ?      /)            5 l..?.Z ao 2-2                   /)      t)      I)    /.?/J    /)/)
                                                                                                                              tJtJ         0          tJ          /) tJ.O ao       tJ.tJ               .l.    p            2.    1/J_!, t:U} /(J.~
                                                                                                                      '1 /] ao

I
     7-Psydllllopcal          "7          /1         7 /.!> /J, 0 /.5                   /1     0       ,?    /2/J                          CJ        Cl           ,'J atJ tJ.O tJ.O                    t:J    0            t:J    t2tJ tJ.t) tJ.o
     8--                     ,.:;      0           /,(     //.tJ    /J,(J 11,tJ        n      0        0     /J/J    /J,(J    /]/]         /         0              I £.. .7 tJ.tJ 6..1                :L     0            ~           tJ.tJ i(J.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1/P.!,"
     9-0lller                 ~       5"           //      441 J'.7 n                  IJ     0        .0    ,?,/}   tJ tJ    a tJ         /J        q            ,; /J.IJ 25:tJ t!f.O                 0      CJ           0       t?.6      tJ, t) C/.0

                                                                                                       z, l/t1t1P &.tJ voo,                g-
 I       Tolll              N        .th         1/..?t:: ,f,R,q .J'/,(, 11/JJ?,      :Z.     t:J                                                    Ji'         /(,     6"0.v 5tUJ a?.                f<     I/          /f ~ / 5"1.9 /Otl.




 I        Evaluation
     0-Ballooo
                                     Number
                                                     /QJ:t)
                                                         Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                       /9S/
                                                                                                       PerC"11
                           Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total
                              ,,.,         C,  0 /J,IJ /J, /) /J,tJ                    /]       0       tJ tJ.o tJ.tJ lao
                                                                                                                                                 Nuntier                Per Cent               Number               Per Call
                                                                                                                                          ertain Doubtfu I Total Certain Doubtful Total Certin Ooublfu Total Certain llarbtful Tola!
                                                                                                                                           $.         ..1'
                                                                                                                                                                 /95'.2


                                                                                                                                                                  S 2.5             ?.S       l,,J


 I   1-Asbonomical
     2•Aircraft
     3-LijlllPlumm.
     4-Birds
                              :Z,
                              CJ
                              tJ
                                9'        ,S /1,. ID1tJ ?(l.0 8'17.P
                                          /J

                                          IJ
                                          /)
                                               2, /J'.J t),cJ llf.J
                                               /)   tJ.tJ "?,., J'.1/l
                                                     /)    /J,C,    I}. tJ   /J,C,
                                                                                       I
                                                                                       I
                                                                                       /J

                                                                                       0
                                                                                                I
                                                                                               /J
                                                                                                /}

                                                                                               /J
                                                                                                       :Z, f(J./, -?/J.J? l~tl.o
                                                                                                        I    tat t),tJ f(l.t)
                                                                                                       ,,; lti.tJ IJ.0 t2tJ
                                                                                                       /)   'IJ.O /? /')       ,/),I'.)
                                                                                                                                          u
                                                                                                                                          /2.
                                                                                                                                               /
                                                                                                                                               /J
                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                         ¥

                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                          :t     :?t( .ff,!
                                                                                                                                                                 ,;,-,

                                                                                                                                                                   I /.5
                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                         1~2, /0./ 15.J


                                                                                                                                                                         ,d.lJ
                                                                                                                                                                                   f f <//. i

                                                                                                                                                                                   /}, tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                   /,.J'
                                                                                                                                                                                              /-2
                                                                                                                                                                                              /, .J'
                                          ,,.,                                                                                ,ao ,,.,
 I
     ~Cloud~ Dus~ el~         0                      /')
                                                         '?" tJ. (J tJ.o              CJ       /)      /J    IJ. Cl 110                                  CJ        0     tJ,LJ     at? .o.,:;
     6-lnsuffic.lnfo.         c?       CJ            (/       /J, tJ tJ.tJ
                                                           /J /)                      Cl       /J      t)    tl.t? 120        17, t?       /         CJ            I     /..5'      tJ.t) /.S'
     7-Psychological          tJ       tJ           n I '1 tJ /JO l"J.0               CJ      CJ       0    ;J,(}     ,?I?    ,J.(J        2...      0            2. :1.!i' tJ. tJ 2-5
     8-Unknown                I        tJ           1 I/.. 7 J'JtJ l&.J                ~       0       1,. 14b.c-     '1/J l~O                 9     0             r  l//.4" atJ I/II

 I   9-0lher


         Total
                              ,,;


                            /-?.
                                       tJ

                                       g
                                                     /J    4() /J, I) 1/.1.t?


                                                   /'5' I <111n IA,:>IJ /OtJ.         u
                                                                                       tJ     t)



                                                                                               I
                                                                                                       11    /JtJ     ,?/J


                                                                                                      5' l@tJ ttJ.tJ llt)P.
                                                                                                                               /)/)




                                                                                                                                          "'~
                                                                                                                                               I.     I            "'1 7. t, /..S 8'!


                                                                                                                                                    20 ~f I 7'¢; 25:.7 /ti?.


 I                        "TA,(Uf


                                   Number
                                               111.i',(

                                         ALL '/eA£S
                                                         Percent                 Number
                                                                                          /~,;/7
                                                                                                       PerCmt
                                                                                                                                    ,

                                                                                                                               Number
                                                                                                                                        / ? c/J"
                                                                                                                                                     Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                                                                                                   /t?L/?
                                                                                                                                                                                                  PerCmt



 I        Evaluaoon
     0-Balloon
     l•Asbonomical
     2-Airaatt
                           Certain Oo"btful Total Certain DoubtfuI Total Certain □o.blful Total Certain Doobtful Total Certain 00.btful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Ooubtfu Total Certain llarbtful Total
                             f.2
                            29
                            .91
                                          ,5' d'7 /t.tJ £1, /7,I,
                                      :Z,./ S'/J l/#,f    $t7 11.0
                                       -? 9 /. /1 ,11.1 ltl.? 22.t
                                                                                       0
                                                                                       I
                                                                                       ;;,
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                2,.
                                                                                                IJ
                                                                                                       () IJ.cJ ,(). tJ t). tJ

                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                        :f l-?11/1   l~c- l,tUJ
                                                                                                             ao O.tJ 0.0
                                                                                                                                           2,
                                                                                                                                               /
                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                          t)
                                                                                                                                                          IJ
                                                                                                                                                          2,
                                                                                                                                                                  ,e II5' t7.c? /.1..7
                                                                                                                                                                   I     £. ~
                                                                                                                                                                  s ~'/ lf.J' ttJ.t
                                                                                                                                                                                    /JIJ ✓-. 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                       I.
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ..s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           :2,, .2x' ?&' 7, /..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           , 2!.J l'/.5 f/(1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           !, 111."' 'f.'7 If 2.
                                                                                                       ,,, 1"'10 /}_ t} O,t)                              ,.,
 I   3-Lijllll'llo,oa,.
     4-Birds.
     ~Clouds. Dust, et~
     6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
                              .t/
                              :z.
                            '7/
                                I
                                          .J'
                                          2,
                                          I
                                          0
                                                     Q
                                                      '/



                                                   2/ $tl
                                                            1.5'"
                                                            tU /.~
                                                            ti.(
                                                      2, a& o.u /J!
                                                                     II


                                                              J'J-0 . LtJ
                                                                             ~-t       ,,;
                                                                                       ,,;
                                                                                       0
                                                                                       tJ
                                                                                               0
                                                                                                /)




                                                                                               /J
                                                                                               /J
                                                                                                       Cl 10.t:i tJ. tJ t:J. tJ
                                                                                                       /J t2tl tJ.tJ
                                                                                                       /) 12/J
                                                                                                                              ao
                                                                                                                    ,..,,., 1/J.O
                                                                                                                                            17


                                                                                                                                            /)

                                                                                                                                           J'
                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                       t:J
                                                                                                                                                      IJ
                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                   t:J
                                                                                                                                                                   ft,
                                                                                                                                                                         tJo
                                                                                                                                                                         /,. 7'
                                                                                                                                                                   0 t2tJ ,!J.t} aa
                                                                                                                                                                                   /J /) lao
                                                                                                                                                                                   /,,,'/


                                                                                                                                                                  ..7 2.0.0. &.tJ ~o
                                                                                                                                                                                             /1.9      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                        0

                                                                                                                                                                                                       /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ✓
                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                t)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                0

                                                                                                                                                                                                               t7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           t:?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Vl/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,? /J

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C?/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ✓ /5:4 /Jt;J /5:-V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /! IJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /1.,.,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /J/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ~tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       a✓•
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /J/J

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,..,,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /JI} .,., /)

 I   7-Psychological
     8-Unkno..,
     9-0ther
                              6
                             5~
                               11
                                       0


                                           ..
                                          t)
                                                      t. t',g IJ,/J 2. g
                                                   "-5 ?ti.? atJ /J/17
                                                    ,,./ kCJ 2.3 53
                                                                                       /J
                                                                                       2..
                                                                                       /J
                                                                                               0
                                                                                                /)

                                                                                               tJ
                                                                                                       tl t2tJ t'J. tJ 10.0
                                                                                                       t, lt-h. c- /2tJ l/4,,,
                                                                                                       0 J?/J i?_O !'JO
                                                                                                                                           tJ
                                                                                                                                           2,
                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                     t:?
                                                                                                                                                      IJ
                                                                                                                                                     :2,
                                                                                                                                                                   IJ tJ.tJ t:?.0 O.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                   /J,
                                                                                                                                                                  :z,
                                                                                                                                                                         /.!.! atJ l.f-.7
                                                                                                                                                                          f1r,     //.J' l..f.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                       /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                               tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           !,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /9? JJ/J 1ft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ?Ji'      ,? /}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <t, J?



 I       Tolll             II'!       '1.., 1..,.:;        11. I tf.t /PP.            .3      :2,      !> l✓-n.v LM.tl ;,:,a               //J        ~          15' t,t,.J 5'.J,.f /pp, .to                  ,:;         .it     '/£., 9 25./ /Oa




 I        Evaluation
     0-Balloon
                                  r.imbef
                                                    1/?<"0
                                                        Pe,C"11
                          Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                              r,          I         '/ /f.1. ..f'vJ :Z/.1.
                                                                                            Number
                                                                                                    /95"/
                                                                                                                   Per Cent                  Number
                                                                                                                                                                 /~>!2.
                                                                                                                                                                   Per Cent                Number                Percent
                                                                                     ertain Dool>lful Total Certain Doubtful Total J,;ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                      .J'      tJ      J     Iii' 17. (1 /if              .it?      1..1' 5'..! J.t.o '/.Ji' I/U

 I   1-Astronomical
     2-Aircraft
     3-Lij111Ph010m.
     4-Birds
                              7
                              IJ
                              0
                               1

                                       n
                                       ,?
                                          5'
                                          4'
                                                    £.
                                                   //]

                                                    17
                                                    tJ
                                                        ?, I
                                                       212 q_ / :fl;~
                                                              vJ./} l/.7.c:?
                                                           tJ.CJ
                                                                f. I IL:!



                                                         t?tl /1 /) ao
                                                                                       I
                                                                                      ,/
                                                                                       IJ
                                                                                       IJ
                                                                                              .J'
                                                                                               I
                                                                                               t?
                                                                                               IJ
                                                                                                       .ti' 14:"R /1/S /9. I
                                                                                                       6 lf.tl #.Ji' 2.M
                                                                                                       /J    vJ/J /J.tJ I?. /J
                                                                                                       ,, 1" /J, /J            /],,,
                                                                                                                                          ✓1
                                                                                                                                          1/.
                                                                                                                                           L/
                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                     /0
                                                                                                                                                    ,2/
                                                                                                                                                         ..1
                                                                                                                                                          /
                                                                                                                                                                 2~ /(l.2,
                                                                                                                                                                 ?7'
                                                                                                                                                                   ? 1'4 1.¥' 4.2.
                                                                                                                                                                                   /,.,I}
                                                                                                                                                                           n lf7 21.5
                                                                                                                                                                  2, /2/,, /J.L. /:2,
                                                                                                                                                                                             l/1..t




 I   Hloud~ Dus~ el~
     6-lnsuflir..'91D.
     7-Psyd>ological
     8-Unknown
                              0
                             .7
                             CJ
                             5'
                                      0
                                      0
                                      0
                                      tJ
                                                   vJ. 'IJ.tJ /20 t:UJ
                                                   .5' 9.1 c:J.O 9./
                                                    tJ t?tJ at? 0.0
                                                    5 1.,;:t / } , ? V6. '2
                                                                                       tJ
                                                                                      :z,
                                                                                       tJ
                                                                                      5.
                                                                                               0
                                                                                              tJ
                                                                                               CJ
                                                                                               /J
                                                                                                       I)

                                                                                                       Z,
                                                                                                             t?./J /) /)
                                                                                                                       f.5
                                                                                                              'l.,< Vl/J
                                                                                                       0 tJ./J I?. tJ (JtJ
                                                                                                       .5'?.tx ". 2.U    /)
                                                                                                                              c:J.tJ       /
                                                                                                                                           p
                                                                                                                                            C,
                                                                                                                                          2;(
                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                      tJ
                                                                                                                                                      tJ
                                                                                                                                                          /J
                                                                                                                                                                  2, lat. ,!J./,, 12-
                                                                                                                                                                  9 5.,/ /1 /) .5:t/
                                                                                                                                                                   /,, .f. t
                                                                                                                                                                .u ~1.7 ,?/1 ?/7
                                                                                                                                                                                   tJ.tJ £t



 I   !1-0lh,,


        Tolll
                             C?

                          ,;.t/ ,
                                      ~             4,     t7.tJ    L. /


                                                  ~2 I~?.? 21.J '/tJa
                                                                             £, /     :z.
                                                                                     /-;f
                                                                                               /J      z, lj ,< /J,J'J 9.5

                                                                                             ,:/ 2, / 1-fl.tJ /9 I) '"".
                                                                                                                                           <

                                                                                                                                          //£
                                                                                                                                                      £,,          7     .5'. tJ

                                                                                                                                                    51 I~ I, IL~ .1 J't:J.'f /pp,
                                                                                                                                                                                   /.,:;,;   4.1.




 I                                                                                                                   195


 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                   Nu-
                                       Au Y.E.-fN'S
                                                         PeJCent
                                                                      /1</      o-'"'"'E

                                                                                       Nmnber
                                                                                                     -,:-

                                                                                                   l•?U">'
                                                                                                                  ..-.AIL:",,,._




                                                                                                             Per Cent
                                                                                                                                    -~




                                                                                                                                      Number
                                                                                                                                                               _f#,.dA=

                                                                                                                                                               l~J,f
                                                                                                                                                             Percent
                                                                                                                                                                                   /J/(7T'


                                                                                                                                                                                     Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                  ST,'!>Te/l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /qQ'q
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doul>tfll Total C.rtlin Doul>llul Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                           Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                         ,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
        Evalution
 0.Balloon                  .l!>      ?j' '1.1 s:t. L I 11.7                      /       /J        I 5% 4tJ 3'.f                                      J!,      5' lf5' !(J l."nf                 11      /7      ,?   AA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                L'l.0    ao
 1-Astrunomical             //)(      ,/1 /1/K IIJ:! ~5 2.!.'J                   2'        I       9  .1P. ~ ?. R !P.t                   /            .J'       LI IJ.z /2.5 IIL. 7              /£.     It-    '-£ IM:, i'?.7 1t£i.~
12-AircrJft                  i,.1     f/() ' 1/J.f   1tl. I ~- ✓ lt,<i"           I           /    ~   f 9 .7.R 1?.'t                3          .     /)        J 112.{; l2t? 1,2.s               .t/    /       5 ( i .ttl 1/,f. 2-
                                                                                                                                     .z               ,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
 3-Llaht Phenom.               ti      /J       t; /4 11 Cl /.//                  /)      /)       tJ       AA    AA         .AA                                 ?     ~~        t?.CJ ~~         t?     A        /J tl.t:J cJ.t? f1/J
4-Birds                        2..      I     ..1145 /) z 11.e;                   /1      /J       t? tltl tJ.,? ao                  tJ               I           I    ao 42, dz                  /7     /1       tJ   AA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 "!" /2a
 >Clouds. Oust. etc.           2.      0      ~ 14.1 CJ./} la..1                  /)
                                                                                          tl       /)
                                                                                                      PP atJ cio                     /)
                                                                                                                                                     0          tJ     t7r,       AA
                                                                                                                                                                                        00         d     /J       ,?   /J/)     /J /J    ao
 ~lnsuffi~ Info.          I IC' !L      /) J(Ji, 114'..1 i<tJ lt..J               ;/      /)       4 115.4' ,?t) 15:¥                    7           /J          '1 ~9.t tJ.tJ ~~:t.               L      /)      ~    M.f.     tl.A H.t
                               .z.                                                        ,,,                                                                    CJ c:u, /)/, t?.Cl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                    I ,. !? ,:?.,:J .J'_R                                                                                              /J.t:7 tJ. tJ tJ.O
                                               J' ,?. J' /J? t?.£
                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,.t?    /7
 7-Psydloloaical                                                                                                                         /)                                                       /)
                                         I                                        /                                                                   (7
 a-Unknown                 ;J9          c? J.JQ 22.; /JtJ -12-1                   t       ,,,      L l?ft /Jo               n.1          ?            p          2. fr AA ,(g'                    4'              //    <?   t ,,,,,,, ~t
'-Other                     _J'.,;-     7 .t.N s:~ /.I ,r._7                     J        CJ       r      ,~,,_   AA        l//,5    /J               ,.,        ,,,    A~       AA
                                                                                                                                                                                        /?.t:J    L     tJ        ?    //; l?.o          VI


                                                                                                  .u ft., 'f.7 /fl"                                                                              f~             I'! IL5.J :l.17 1/,:::17.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
       Total              l¢9tJ 1/J'q 6V, l-'1R',; 2/.6 Ila>.                   2,:/          ~                                      /(7              t        -?// I .,..5.o   2£.tJ                   ;'}'




I Evaluation
    D-Balloon
                                   Number
                                              /?5tJ
                                                          Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                    ,;,   .C-/

                                                                                                       Per Cent               Nwrl>er               Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                            ,0£<
                                                                                                                                                                           Number
                           Certain 0OIJbllul Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Dowlful Total Certain 0111blM Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certin Ooublfu

                               <J.      :z      d     1:?      ~1 L.L             /)          I      //)/J .2,/               :ti
                                                                                                                                  ..,,_ .?_?                    L :Z / 0     '(9 l~f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Total Certain Omrbllul Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                       d             .1/J.tJ £.1 ?1.1                                 2/.2 1:2.1 :J'/,p                                        L"' ,~,; ,/1 /5,(.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
    l·Astronomical            ,Jf             ?1                                 1/J       L      ,/,.                              do               /'1
    2-Aircrafl:                 7       ,(    1..1 II. 7 ;t?.tJ :2/.7             ~-      2,       ✓ 4._g /,(g      i?t,            4'L             .J'()      .,..L :1;.t:, 7,:t, /~2,
    3-Litl>ll'tlaloal.          /)     tJ       /)    /) /}   /},,,     /} /}     ?.      0        t, 11. J' t7.tl 4g                s-                p                        o:.
                                                                                                                                                                  "' l.:Z. (;JA /1{!,
                                                                                                                                                                                  AA


    4-Bints                     0      ,1       /)    /} /}   /J./J /) /J         0       0        /? '?' c:JJ, tl.t:J                   <J.          0          £,  ~"'
                                                                                                   ~ ,, /
    S-Clouds. Oust etc.
    6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
    7-Psychological            0
                                /,

                               ,;
                                        /)

                                       /J
                                       /}
                                               .,
                                               0
                                                /)    /} /}


                                                     /t?./J
                                                      /J.IJ
                                                              /} /)

                                                              /} /)
                                                                        0./J
                                                                        //}()
                                                               /}/") 112D
                                                                                  /}

                                                                                  .u
                                                                                      I
                                                                                          /J

                                                                                          /J

                                                                                          /7
                                                                                                   ✓
                                                                                                   I .2,/'
                                                                                                             Cl,? t?. t?
                                                                                                              L.5 .,..tr
                                                                                                          !f"e;   /1./J
                                                                                                                  .,,,,.,
                                                                                                               -:2.I    0
                                                                                                                                         .2.,          0
                                                                                                                                                          /J
                                                                                                                                                                 :t,   /)_I,
                                                                                                                                                               .,..5 1,'{11 CJ.CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                 11 /) 1 ✓16


                                                                                                                                                                  I 4tl I/J "- CJ.1,
                                                                                                                                                       ,,,/ ,p:t, N/.1 ~o 1.,,-'{q
                                                                                                                                                                                         t19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                     /fi:1 ao If!               ;d                Id 2U tJ.t7 ~9,i? l1n,:t..
    &-Unknown                 //       0       //                                         0
                                                                                                   ,, IIJ.~                                                     ,,,, -< 1 /,d L.7
I
 9-0ther


        Total
                               :/'


                             ¥1 /.1
                                        I      ¢


                                             i,,O
                                                     S:tl 1.7 /,..7

                                                     ft:1 2/7 /t)O,             n'
                                                                                  t,      /)




                                                                                          /       07 itJ.9
                                                                                                                  /JC) 110,~


                                                                                                                  /91 /c:t:!
                                                                                                                                    .2~

                                                                                                                                    ?j'/             f<-1
                                                                                                                                                          /-



                                                                                                                                                               Q/9 1.,..~t. ~ f /a!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                 196
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
I
I
                                                                                                                                               t26✓trer

I
                             Oif{1.E                                                E/l',£t-UAOl2tv'.                            C7F

                                                        /ILL          v'e,1,es                                           •& Y?'                                 I"'                             ,,,dr7                                                      ,-,,-/9
                                          rtimbef            Percent                                     Number                Per Cent                Number                Per Cent                Number                Per Cent
            Evaluation         Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total                      ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total



I   0-Ballom
    :I-Astronomical
        2-Alltlaft
                               1/3
                               //5
                                ;?/J
                                           1'.J ,P~ M,9 ,!{tJ /?;9
                                            9/        //./ %f 19. 9
                                                         ~/J/.
                                            ,:,,< UJ! 11'.£ /ll.5' n.1
                                                                                                     ~

                                                                                                    .f
                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                   tJ
                                                                                                                   ¢
                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                         5 1/.9 tJ. tJ //. 9
                                                                                                                         '7  }(/ Y.5 11.i:;.t
                                                                                                                         2, ,?J,/ <J.J U.R
                                                                                                                                                                  //
                                                                                                                                                                      6

                                                                                                                                                                      6
                                                                                                                                                                                    g /✓ f5 12.7 22.2 ✓
                                                                                                                                                                                  , I :Z:t /1.5 11:5 J',/.9
                                                                                                                                                                                    ,:)          (,       ?.!>'     /J.,:)     f.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        J!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I 5' ¢; /. 2, ~tl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                :tt .J'¢ l?.5 .?/.tJ Wa5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5 /:Z, x',S ,t. tJ 1✓1
    3-LijhtPh,nom.                            /¥ .7/J /5 ;.¢ 2.1                                                         -:?.. 14"2' ,t?.tJ l ✓.r                                  .J'           2        at?       t/r       .I.If                                    4.tJ tUJ t2tJ

I
                                 16                                                                 2,,         tJ                                                    tJ                                                                 ,?       C7          /J
    4•Birds                        7           ~ // /J.7 a ✓ ;. I                                   tl          /J       ,? /J./J  /J.tJ l;?.CJ                       L7            /             I /?.C7 /./. /."  .2,                           C7          ~       :/.✓       tJ.tJ .;,✓
    $-Clouds, Dus~ et~            I)         .J'                  ,, 11).tJ /JJ' ~.?               /J          tJ        t? /)/}   ,::J.tJ ,:J,:J                     tl           ,,            tJ /! .4 /,//, AA   ,?                           C7          n       /J.,:J      /JJJ    /?.t)
    6-lnsuffic. inro.           fl,          {)            9(,        u
                                                                    /J.tl                  u       £           t?        6 l,,(..1 Clt? /✓..?                         (,           t?            £ Y.5' tl tJ Y.5' /ff'                          tJ         1✓ /t,.7             CJ.(?    //,]
                                                          .n /.<I /J. .f 2.t :z,                                              ✓.r ¢3' 'l. I,                                                                                                                          v/         ,?.tJ 2.✓

I                                                                                                                                                                                                / V. G LJ.tJ /,I,
    7-Psydlolo~cal              /Q           ~                                                                 2,        d                                            /            tJ                               :Z,                          C7           2,
    a.uniu,,.,                                                                                                           fl 'N,:::, ,1A /?t'                          .,                                                                                              1✓.1                A(f
    9-0the,
                               ;v5
                                .?ti
                                             I)
                                             /.
                                                         lf5 dP ,, /J I,!? ,!{
                                                           .?L 2. 9 IZ6 $.5'  f'
                                                                                                               tJ
                                                                                                               Cl        fl     l1<ft'       /2(}      1ft'       .2,
                                                                                                                                                                                   C7
                                                                                                                                                                                   /
                                                                                                                                                                                                 1 /// /J(J It/./ /:Z,
                                                                                                                                                                                                 3 f. 2, I·" ✓f                         ..,       C7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /:Z,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              s 5t,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /7,A

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 t?.tJ f.(,

                                                                                                                        4i i'U //..7 w
I          Total               7'/(, .1'/7' /ti.I.I tf,?../ .?tJ.;:' /,?,?.                       g5           7                                                 .5'9            2¢ /...S t,/.9                     J'i'.I /t>a S'Z f2, ff✓ t,/. 9 .?ff.I /t'IJ,




I            Evaluation
        ll-Balloon
                                       Number
                                                         19,5',:J
                                                             Per Cent                Number                Per Cent
                               Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total
                                  /1:J           I II 1//J' /.¥ 67                                 J                /
                                                                                                                              /, ',:-/




                                                                                                                          4 /tJ.1 .!5,(, Nb j'£'
                                                                                                                                                                                 Nuntler
                                                                                                                                                                                                 /9-.Z,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                  ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu
                                                                                                                                                                       72, 15'1 1/.4 ?.7' 21./
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Number                          PerCmt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Total Certain Doubtful Total




I                                               .J' /£. /?, 9 d.5' /~1!.
        I-Astronomical                ~                                                              :?         _;t.      5' 1/J~              '7. I1-f"          fl/ ,1,... 12/.. //J.9 Lt? 1/t.<?
        2-Aircratt                Ji'        .t,,          /CJ //./1            .ff /I/!            ..r         /J       .f l(J.1             /J,/J 1/J ~         t?< /PP 2.t'5 Ml IU' 1'1;;
        3-LijhtPhonom.            ~             L)            /J      tJ.,:J    /J.tJ 12 tJ          L)         /         /       /,J/J        ?;_     .1'/..     /q    /{;7 pq' 1.9     /5 5.2
        4-Birds                   0          CJ               tJ      /J/J      1?,:J   at.?            ,,      /         I        t?.t? .£t.          .££            <               ,t,         7 cJ.1 4..f' /.t'
                                                                                                                                                       ,.,,.,
I       S-Clouds. Oust. etc.
        6-lnsuffic. Info.
        7-Psychological
        ~UnknOMI                /9
                                  tJ
                                /.f
                                  ~
                                            t)

                                            0
                                             tJ



                                            ,,
                                                           I?


                                                          /(J
                                                              /,)



                                                              ~
                                                                      tJ.tJ t.?tJ
                                                                     1ft, tltJ /ft
                                                                     2. (j      ,,,.,
                                                                                ?.9
                                                                     9'1./ ,u, 21/
                                                                                        (Jt.?       /J
                                                                                                    ✓
                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                    Q
                                                                                                               tJ
                                                                                                               ,:)

                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                               p
                                                                                                                         /J
                                                                                                                         Q 1,,/..1 t:!tJ 1¢'1 5.?
                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                          p S'f./
                                                                                                                                   IJt? ClrJ

                                                                                                                                  l?.t?        :;,t,    ?_I..
                                                                                                                                              IJO •12./ /;,IP
                                                                                                                                                                          t?

                                                                                                                                                                           ';/
                                                                                                                                                                                   f
                                                                                                                                                                                   L)

                                                                                                                                                                                   5
                                                                                                                                                                                   p
                                                                                                                                                                                                 .J' /J.tJ tJJ/ tJ.4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                5.5' -7.I atJ j',/
                                                                                                                                                                                                 /2, /J.t}
                                                                                                                                                                                        1$.i C//J l/$f
                                                                                                                                                                                                /&
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IJ_';f    /./..

                                                                                                    ,,                                        ,,,.,
I   9--0ther

    I      Total
                                 .t,

                                /.J'
                                            /


                                                7        7',j
                                                              ~      t.,, 1.J d.:I
                                                                      //4/, I{). p 'ltl;J.        .u.
                                                                                                               tJ

                                                                                                                /..     £$
                                                                                                                          /J      /!?.I'>

                                                                                                                                  "(? I.
                                                                                                                                                  /J,:J /5                         ✓ /9 :l.tl tJ.5 l?.5

                                                                                                                                             .2/.-tl //J(,! !>t'5 2-V/ ..-JL t,;r j't'.5 i/,?'l



I                                      Number
                                                 Au.                r,/.,;9~5
                                                             Per Cent
                                                                                   ,:>;/



                                                                                     Number
                                                                                                   ~ , , ,>,d,:-




                                                                                                           Per Cm!
                                                                                                                         /9 ✓7
                                                                                                                              ,;:>_c


                                                                                                                                   Number
                                                                                                                                            ,.,.,, =L!'?'


                                                                                                                                                         Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                  ~




                                                                                                                                                                                                 /(J~'?
                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,_



                                                                                                                                                                                                       PerCmt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,.,,,,,          "''""L!"',. c r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /(J,:/y




I
             Evaluation        Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain lloubtfu Total Certain Doubtful Total
        0-Balloon                 .?              I            d £. 7 /J (j f.5                         /J         t?    0         /J,//      /7 /J    ,.,~               /J          L)          tJ    /} /J IJ. /) /J.O                /        0                 I :(-;? ,tZ cJ        ~-:1
        I-Astronomical                           6             5 /k' 5.3 7./                         tJ         CJ       CJ        ,?/J       t1. Cl LJ.O             tJ            :t            :'l, /J /} l1x'.t /,ft                 C7           /         I /J,/J 7.7 -17
        2-Aircraft
                                  ~.


                                ?/J         2£)           9'tl 1:(7 177' 5'5•                       ,.,         0        /J        /Jj)
                                                                                                                                   /,J,t:J /J.C7                      5'            I             ~       ~5.5       ?. I     5¢.t       .t.          I       ..? 15:9' ~7 P.?.I


I       3-Light Phenom.
        4-Birds
        5-Clouds, Dus~ etc.
        6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
                                  0
                                   :z,

                                  tJ
                                //J          t'
                                                0
                                                /
                                                    I      s 1.f /2 (j ?.'7


                                                          /t)
                                                              /
                                                               /J     /J,,
                                                                      ,1/J

                                                                      !U
                                                                                /J /,
                                                                                /JI/
                                                                                cJ,:J
                                                                                        // t?
                                                                                        /J.9
                                                                                           i'.I
                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                    /?

                                                                                                     /,)

                                                                                                    /J
                                                                                                                /J
                                                                                                               ,:)

                                                                                                                I')

                                                                                                               cJ
                                                                                                                         /)

                                                                                                                         0


                                                                                                                         /J
                                                                                                                             /J.O /J. /J tJ.O
                                                                                                                             tJ,(J /,//J 1/'.l.O
                                                                                                                          tJ /J.0 120 /20
                                                                                                                                  tl.n        /J/J      /)/)
                                                                                                                                                                      ;;I
                                                                                                                                                                      t.?
                                                                                                                                                                      t?
                                                                                                                                                                          /
                                                                                                                                                                                   "
                                                                                                                                                                                   cJ
                                                                                                                                                                                   /)
                                                                                                                                                                                      /)

                                                                                                                                                                                            •
                                                                                                                                                                                                  tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                 /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                 tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                  /
                                                                                                                                                                                                           tl./J




                                                                                                                                                                                                           {j_/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /J./} /J./)
                                                                                                                                                                                                           /ltl 11 /J /J. 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                          /J./}     /}_ I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     c?./J ?, I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               /).IJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /)



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         C7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CJ         /) ,?tJ t?.t?. /J.(J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                L)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /7_ /)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ac
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,Z IS. I/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /J.(J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /J.t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /);?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /)/l


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ;;IC) /!,.~



I       7-Psychological
        I-Unknown
        9-0ther
                                  7
                               .?..?
                                 /.
                                             {)

                                             /7
                                                 /
                                                              7      ,t);? t. 2
                                                                      £.. 2
                                                          .7.J l.?91 t?./J 1'-1
                                                            7 5:.f tl.11 t,.t
                                                                                                    5
                                                                                                     /)



                                                                                                    t.?
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                              tJ
                                                                                                              CJ
                                                                                                                         tJ IOtl
                                                                                                                        5 11,.,,,, tHJ Vau,
                                                                                                                        tJ
                                                                                                                                   ,.JO tl.0


                                                                                                                           //" /J. /J lr,20
                                                                                                                                                                      tJ
                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                  0

                                                                                                                                                                                   tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                   //
                                                                                                                                                                                                  /)

                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                          ///1

                                                                                                                                                                                                           9. I
                                                                                                                                                                                                          'II
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /J,, /J.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    c?.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,t)tJ 9./
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                fl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         fi'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 C7            C7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5 Jf.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7. 7.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /J.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  O.t' -,-7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /}.(}    ;,r,5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  O.t.? t?.v



I           Total              %J          ft)            //1 :'1.f~ 2t,.~ /t/0.                   6          CJ         ~ ltJO.t             ,., /J   //l/1,             i'       .;>           // l-12., z'1. :I /.i'O                II           ;2.     /j       f'i/t, 11,.,/ /t)t)




I            Evaluation
        0.Balloon
                                       Number
                                                           / f ,/J
                                                             Per Cent
                               Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total

                                      I          0              I 111.5" tl.tJ l:t.€: tJ
                                                                                                             Number
                                                                                                                              /?!,/
                                                                                                                                Per Cent                Number                Per Cent            Number                PerCeat
                                                                                                  Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total ~ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total ~in Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tota

                                                                                                                    /     I /JtJ t,.J t,.J                                /             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                      / >,;-;t..



                                                                                                                                                                                                      I    /,-;t     /7 /)     ;.;t
                                                               t. /J /J ?G',t) 9t:..O tJ                                    /J.tJ IJ.iJ tJ. I)                                          J' f..J 11 ~tJ

I
    )1-Astronomical               0             :?,                                                             0         /J                                              :?.           I
        2-Aircraft                /)         0                 /J IJ./) tJ. /J /J.0   5                       .5'        ff f/.J d'.$ 5/).tl                          g"           15' 2.r I.?.! 2S.tJ .fJl.J
        3-Light Phenom.           0          0                 /)      ///J     /2 Cl /?.CJ         /J         0         //        /7 I)      /J.(}     /J.O              -?,           /         j       .?.3      /,/       5.0
        4·Birds                   I)         0                0       IJ.t? /J.t:i tJ.O             t'         Cl        rJ la. ti            /J.IJ    /J.O               /}          CJ          Cl tUl /J.,J /J.O


I       ~Clouds, Oust.etc.        Cl         0                 /J      '7/J     /J_/J /J. /J        /J         ,-J       CJ /J.tJ             /) /I    /7.r.J             /J          /           /       /}/}      /.7        /.7
        6--lnsuffic. Info.        I          /)                /     /f?.5      4C' ;2.,;           2..         cJ       £,. ltf'G'          tJtJ 11.,;               ,;,-'        &             ,;/       ~ 7.      a,:; t,,.7
        7-Psydlolo~c:al           Cl         tJ               /}  t:?t? [f:7,0 /J,:?                0          0         tJ            --?" /J. tJ /1/1                   (,       0              t,      /tJ.tJ ,:J.0 /t).t'
        8-Unknown                -?             ,,            .1' 115 /,J/} '?15                    d          0         ✓ 25.tJ /J.O ::?t;tJ                     /!,              CJ           /,;'      :?5:tl cJ.t? ::?5.tl


I       J.0111et


            Total
                                  /


                                 /4
                                             CJ


                                             ~            t
                                                               /      1,t.6     /?tJ 1?.5

                                                                     1~0 15.0 ltJCJ. /2.,
                                                                                                    /


                                                                                                              ✓
                                                                                                               /J


                                                                                                                        It
                                                                                                                          / l/4.? /J. tJ ;;_g

                                                                                                                                   '1L:t) 25.t' Vtlt>.            ffl
                                                                                                                                                                      J

                                                                                                                                                                                  l'f
                                                                                                                                                                                       /          ✓ "-(J 1,7

                                                                                                                                                                                                ttJ LRJ -7/.7 :1oa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               L 7




I                                                                                                                                           197

I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                  r.imber
                                             I/LL.                1/,1:,9.(s
                                                                          Per Cent
                                                                                       ,,,/
                                                                                                         ""'°"'
                                                                                                          Numbef
                                                                                                                        lf-~7·
                                                                                                                                   /,Ir



                                                                                                                                 PerCenl
                                                                                                                                              0"       ,!£



                                                                                                                                                         Number
                                                                                                                                                               -r
                                                                                                                                                                    ✓




                                                                                                                                                                               Percent
                                                                                                                                                                                       /VL/f
                                                                                                                                                                                            Mc~~,,,.

                                                                                                                                                                                                       Nu-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        t:J,ff'


                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,,,-Mer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /9✓9                                  I
     Evaluation        Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total                              Certain Dobbtfu I Total Certain Doubtful Total certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tolal Certain Doubllul Total Certain lloul>llut Total
ID-Balloon
11-Astionomical
2-Airctlft
                         ~
                       2$'
                         2,
                                    I /j

                                     :Z
                                        /}              2,
                                                   ✓1. 14'1-'5'
                                                        ¢
                                                                 J',; /} /} .VI
                                                                           .w." '/~/.
                                                                 J,/ 1 ✓ ,:._g
                                                                                                                                                                 d
                                                                                                                                                                 t1
                                                                                                                                                                    0         t?
                                                                                                                                                                              ✓
                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                        CJ tJ. cJ /.J.t:J dt:J
                                                                                                                                                                                        f        'i'tJ.tJ ,:/tJ./J l<?A/}
                                                                                                                                                                                        tJ /} ,1 /} /} 17,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /}

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,I ~a/} /4/ltJ R/J.,P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          tlo /.J.tJ tJ.tJ

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         tJ.tJ t:J.tJ 1'2t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
3-Light Phenom.                      I                   I                               1.7                                                                     tJ          tJ

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                          /]                                     /J,:1       I. -;1                                                                                                     tJ 17,l', tJ.O "CJ                    t?          eJ         t?        tJ./J tJtJ        t?t:J
4-Biids                  .'7        I                   /   IJ. tJ  /.'7 /.7                                                            0                        tl          ()          tJ /J.,? /},;/ ',?O                  tJ          I          I        /J.I) !VJ.ti       11/J.IJ
S-Clouds, Oust, etc.     n          /}                   /J CJ.tJ   /.//J l?,/7                                                  1111                               t?       0          0        ot? acJ tJ.O                 tJ          17         /J       /7,1 at?            tJ.O
6-lnsuffic. Info.        I          0                    I 1-1 /lt? /.7                                                 n
                                                                                                                        V
                                                                                                                                                                 0           ()         /J       /J./} ,,,_ a 0./J            ,?          ,,,        /}       17.t? 170           /JJJ
                                                                                                                    I                                                                                                                                                            ao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
7-Psydlolo&ic:al        cJ          CJ                   0 /JO tJ. () (),?                                                                                       ,?         0           cJ aCJ &. ,? ,? /J                        cJ      (J          t?      /J.eJ /)/J
8-Unkno•                ,t/        ()                   ✓ L. Jr /J,:9 t.f                                         \\I                                           2,           cJ         1, 'ltu; t?,O               M.o           /}      r?          0       0. tJ /} tJ {).tJ
9-0llle,                 0         0                    /J ,?. tJ tJ. (} C,/J                                                                                    tJ          0          0        120      tf?. tJ   t?.cJ     cJ          0          0        t!tJ     00 t:J.tJ

                                                                                                                                                                             ✓ ltJ tt?.tJ ¢1J.l', /0().                                   ✓
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
    Total               $7        22- !JP t2.J J'1'5 IN.                                                                                                         t,                                                               I                  5       1/J.tJ   RtJ.tJ /1)0.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                    ,P,ro                                                               //i -/                                                        /<?!,~
                                  Number             Per Cent                Number                Per Cent                Nunt>er               ·Per Cent               Number                                                                                   Per Cent
     Evaluation        Certain Oobbtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total ~ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain lloublfu                                                                    Total Certain Doubtful Total
0-BallOOII                    I          11                  I   I/IA        11 /) '/Jt!.O           /}           CJ        JJ     av tJ.O t). 0                        I        11     I tu' t?. 17 ?.✓
                                                                                                                         :z. 5(?.t, 5/J.O /Of>A 2.2- /t}                               ?2, 5~7 2✓.,,.. ~i'.I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
 I-Astronomical           /J             ,?              /}       I!. 0      c?.O        f1/1        I            I
2--Aircrafl               0             0                11       /) /l      /J /}        "<,,      /J            cJ     ,?         17.;;    0.0      t?,t'.        ?        2-             4 #.'9 .9. 9 ?.~
Hiat>tl'llenom.           .J            0               0         00         /) /)       tJ. (J     0             /}    tJ         17.;; /l /) 17.;;.               CJ           I        I t:l.tJ 2- ✓ ,?.q
4-Birds                   n             /)              /)        {) 0       '? /)       /l,?       /)
                                                                                                               0        /)         o.c, tJ. tJ /) r,                11       a           /J /J,.,       L20
                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,,,,.,
                                                        a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
5-Cloud~ Dus~ etc        t}             0                         00         /JO         /J /)      tJ        0          tJ /J.li /1.r? 0. /}                    CJ          0           ,? at? /JO I/Jt?
6-tnsuffit.lnfo.          /J         /J                 I)        /J,/J       ,1, /)    /1 /J       0        0          tJ ,>/1 t).tJ tJ. 0                      I           0           I 2.¢ tl./J ,?.{/
7-Psycholo1ical          0           0                  0         ao 17.0                /J /)      ✓1       0              /J     t)./J    ,1. /}   /1,()       ,:;         0          (l       ?'.O     17.t}     t:7.0
a.unknown                0          0                   /)        /1.0       00         /)/)        0        ,,:)       0          0. /}    i!J. /} /J. /)          2-      cJ          ~        .t/ 9 ao 14.9
9-0ther                                                 tJ                   0.0        /}J;                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                  .')/l                                                            /)/l
                         0          0                                                               /J       0                              ,?, /)   tJ.t:J         cJ       CJ             /J "! /, tJ.LJ tJ.o

    Total                 I         0               I            "'"        /J. (J 10().            I         I         :t., !,{)(, 50.P lloo. f'f                          Is        4/ Lry .5'/. 7 /OP.
                                                  /J/lj

                                                 ,-4,_,__ t/,;;,1.e.s
                                                                                  El(ALIIAOt2!11                        ta-

                                                                                                                         /IJQ7
                                                                                                                                        (29.J£er
                                                                                                                                                        ✓

                                                                                                                                                                                       /9.'. JI'
                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /y<I,;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
I Evaluation                   Number                Percent                 Number                Per Cent                Nunler                Per Cent                 Number                                                                                      PerCmt



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                       Certain Dobbtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain lloubtfu                                                                    Total Certain Doubtful Tot~
0-Balloon               .d              J' ?-;f /9.2,                        2.;:/ 2/.(,            t)           0          eJ a/J l:J. tJ .?.If!                   I         0           I /t,.7 t2tJ 1/t.7                          5       0       5 55:I, ao          55.•
 I-Astronomical         ;.Z         /t,           24             f. t        f.? /9.t               cJ            I         / ,111 II,. 7 /1,.1                     ?.        0         .Z 133 atJ 3.1.1                           17         :2..   :t.,.    IJ /J       21.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       l}-,_:z

2-Aircraft              1✓          H              27 I/, 2, /tJJ/ 2/.?                             ti            17     11        IJ.tJ tJ.LJ tJ.O                 /J        .Q        tJ cu:, /J.O tJ.I)                        IJ      2.         :Z-      /?. tJ 22.2 22.2.
                                                    tJ /J,11 /J. 11 [/J.,?                                                                                                                                                                                     atJ tJ.tJ /7.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
3-Lif!IPhl!IIOm.          t7        eJ                                                              17            /7    r?         t:l.JJ /J.CJ tJ.tJ               /J        0        tJ /1/1 C). I) 00                          /}      ,?          tJ
4-Birds                  J           I               2, ,? % IJ. .f /.t                             tJ        tJ         eJ         r?/J    17./J JJ.O              I         CJ        I 11,-7 /J. tJ ll,-l                       IJ         /J      t?      /7 CJ tJ. IJ 0.0
S-Clouds, Oust, etc.      /J         2.             2- /! /1 /,I,     I.I..                         IJ        /J        /J         1)./J    tJ.tJ OtJ               /J        0        CJ tJ. tl ;7_ /2 tJ.,.,                    t?       0          ,AJ     /? 17 17.r:J tJ. tJ
6-lnsuffic.lnfo.        H            0             I f /0.tl /J. I) ltJ.(/                          '2.       0         fl_,      J'N /.J. CJ ?:/.3              /}              /J     tJ /J./J tJ.tJ cJ. C                      CJ       a         /J       &.17 /1/J           l"J/J

                         ✓                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    a eJ tJ.& /217
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
7-PsycNllogical                         /)              ,I    tJ. tJ .?.Z
                                                                  {?.                               /}        LJ        CJ        /,).t)    tJ, tJ
                                                                                                                                             0- CJ                  /J           /J    tJ ;:J.t:J 0./J o.o                        0           t'J     tJ
8-UnknoMI               22.          0             22, /:1.t, ,?. IJ /:1.I,                          4        /J        2        n.1 ✓'< tJ J7.:7                   I         ,?       I    /1.., rJ./7 //..)                     0        n          0 OtJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,.,,.,    /7,()
9-0ther                   j'            I           ,I :/.q' JJ.K ?2                                /        tJ         I        //4.7 cl,(} 1/..7                  I            tJ      I II.. i /}.tJ ,,.7                      0       /J          t? l/2'/J IJ. tJ           ao
                                                                                                                                  n, /1,.1 ltJO.                                                                                  ,,- rt'
    Tolll               91 J'~ 12.£ 11¢.!I 25.t /tlP.                                               /j        I         6                                           £,       tJ             £,   /tJIJ.l t:J. tJ ltJO.                                9      i,6'.(, .II<'(//' /00.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                   /9-:-/J                                                                  /¥~/                                                            /,.c2--
                                  bber                                    Per Cent
                                                                             Nmnber                Per Cent                                                                 Nu-              Pei Cent                Number                Pei Cent
     Evaluation        Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Gertain Doubtful Total Certain Oobbtful Total                                             certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubllul Total c.rtain lloubllul Toi~
                                                        .t, 1/l.3 /d? 2it                                                         qJ; no J'J:3                                 ?. /-;f /1--f 2.2- ;;:,
0-Ballooo
1-Astrooomical
                          I                 I                                                        "·           ll    ,2.,                                     /~

                                                                                                                                                                              t It //.0 /. /.. l'(t

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                          0                 2.          :Z,      121) ?2.? Ht                        /}           I         Iat? It 7 /l7 117
2-Aircraft                    I          0               / 41 /JO l~J'                              0          tJ       I) tJ. cJ l).O t2t7 /J                               I/ N' //IJ 12.I 21,.'t'
3--Li&htPtlam.            /J            0               0 lt?.O              t?.O tJ.o               0         0        0 t?.tJ        tJ   a      I?,.,,,                   0     I) /JJJ 4.0 /}.O
4-Binls                   ,.,           /]              0         t:J. tJ /J.O
                                                                 ,?/J                                   /J     /J        /} t? ';} t?. /J   / ) ,,
                                                                                                                                                    /7                           J      I        /} /}      /.I /.I
                                                        tJ ao ?J.r:J tJ. tJ                                                                                                             2- /J./1 2.2.. 2.2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
S-Clouds, Oust. etc.     0           0                                                               /J        0         tJ /.JtJ /}. /} t?. t?     t?                       2.,,
6-lnsuffic. klfo.         I             0                I l/✓.1 t).tJ /Q.J'                         2..      0         ,t_ l?t..1 0. /) ?f'.1       R'                      0          R h' / J / ) ,f_y
7-Psydlolo&ical          0           tJ                  IJ tJ.tJ ,ao tJ.tJ                         0            0       0 t?.o t!?. tJ tl.LJ       ✓                        0          ,/ ~.; t20 sf~
8--                      I              0               I        /Q.J'      /7.0 /.(j J'             I            /J     I I/L. -f t:). I) /6.7 /-;f                         0         ;7 1$:1 /1. /J lff.7
9-0IJle,


   Total
                          /J


                         ,I         3
                                        n               IJ       /2.IJ t:J.tJ ,0.£}

                                                        7 5:1.1 l.d?.9 /(JP.                       ~
                                                                                                    0

                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                  /J    /}        /?.O      t?.,., /J. r?


                                                                                                                        C, l~t..1 l t f /l)tl.
                                                                                                                                                                    /            I      I


                                                                                                                                                                I,$ 21' t/1 1~1.-1 25.J' ·1m
                                                                                                                                                                                            /,I I I    2.1.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                          198                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
I
I
I
          EYliuatioo


I   0-Balloon
    l•Astn,nomical
    2-Aircrlft
    3-Liat,t Phenom.


I   t.Birds


    6-lnsuffic Info.
    7-Psycholopcal


I   !I-Ollie<




I
        Total




                                                     ,,,,-,.,
I         Evaluation
    0-Batloon                 /)
                                     Number


                                           /)             17     /J, /)
                                                                          Per Cent


                                                                           /J, (J tJ. (J         0
                                                                                                        Number
                                                                                                        Per Cent
                           Certain Oooblful Total ·Certain OOublful Total Certain Ooubtlul Total Certain Oooblful

                                                                                                              .0
                                                                                                                   /9, "/



                                                                                                                    t.l    /l,/J
                                                                                                                                              Tot■

                                                                                                                                  t,J. tJ tJ. tJ
                                                                                                                                                                     Nuntier        Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                                                                       ertain Ooublful Total Certain Ooublful Total Certain Ooublfu Total Certain Olllblful
                                                                                                                                                         /              f
                                                                                                                                                                                 /<?<:t,



                                                                                                                                                                                  4' /I,         9"'. i' IL.4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PerC01I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Tot■



                              ✓                       ,:; StUJ d_,;- 1-,,;                                          t                                                    g       ,,,, 29.() 1,.5 5'6'.5
I
    l·Astn>nomical                          I                                                    /             /          2_:; /) :2_,;:p 5/J.1.         /F
    2•Airaaft                 J7           /)         z 1~t? LJ.£} ,?,:-,0                        /           /}    /     1!fo       /J./J    15.b      //                  I,   /-?  17.1 9.1 21.11
    3-Liat,tl'llenom.         /J        /)            (J         /}_CJ      /JtJ     fJ./1        /}          0     17    tJ.£)      (J. tJ /J.v         /              /,)        I ;,t tJ.tJ ;,I,
    4-Birds                  0          /J                /}     tJ./? () /) l'J.n                ,?          /)   (J     /}, JJ     (J. /) tJ,/J        /}                 /      / !t?tJ /,6 /,I,


I
    s-c1..d~ OusL etc         /)        /?            0          /J.o CJ.O ao                    CJ           t7    ()     /}/)      tJ,l'J 0.0         /}             (J         /J 4.o tJ,0 I✓-1 tJ
    6-!nsuffic.tnfo.          /}        0             /J         /l_n       /J,/J     nn         ,?           n    tJ     JJ,/J     L).O      0.0        I              I)        I /,t:, /J. (J /,I,
    7-Psycholo1ical          0         0              /)        0.0 0. t? l/1,o                  /)           /)   tJ     /J,LJ      JJ.O (J. 0          •f             0         :z.. Cl.. r?. tJ ~2
    &-UnknoMI                I          n             I         /:/.5 JJ.(J 12.5                 /         0        I     :15.o      0,/J -?,1.°/J       '1             /}        "/ //.1 /)_/.) //,.1

I   9-0ther


        Total                7
                              ,'.)     0


                                           I
                                                      17        nn



                                                     I( Ifft,; /?.~ lt!tJ.
                                                                           /J /)     JJ /J       tJ

                                                                                                .?        I
                                                                                                           0       /.)    tU?        ,,,_ /) /J,/J

                                                                                                                   ¢ 1'1'-':L 26.tJ /t)t).
                                                                                                                                                         I,                 I     7

                                                                                                                                                       .t/'1 15 1,2, '1t..i N..t /tJO.
                                                                                                                                                                                      q_ 1 /,I, //,.?




I                          7fll{LE


                                   Number
                                                 A/.1..;-

                                                .4t.t..
                                                  le,tA!.S
                                                         Pe,C"1I
                                                                                   Ev,,u. 149 t:42/1(


                                                                                 Number
                                                                                           /~-'1'7
                                                                                                       Per Cent                Nuntier
                                                                                                                                        /P<1 If
                                                                                                                                                 /


                                                                                                                                                     Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                                                                                                   /9dt;
                                                                                                                                                                                                  PerCmt


I                                                                              .,
          Evaluation       Certain Oooblful Total Certain Ooublful Total Certain Ooublful Total Ce!lain Oooblful Total Certain Ooublful Total Certain Ooublful Total Certain Ooublfu Total Certain Olllblful Tot~

                                      d /t 'I!. tl ,,.                                                                                                                                                                                            4( /. gz
    0-Balloon
    l•Asbtlnomical
                            .12-
                            ZJ       /9            , ,~         Q.S -? ' f 11.CJ
                                                                                      /~1        ,tJ
                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                           tJ
                                                                                                           2,
                                                                                                                      tJ ~tJ /,)_ tJ 0. 0
                                                                                                                    ..1 1/.l,;; ul'J.tJ 1..1.1,,
                                                                                                                                                        ?_

                                                                                                                                                         /
                                                                                                                                                                        tJ
                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                  fl, /.1.$
                                                                                                                                                                                  I     t.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                 /,)./,)
                                                                                                                                                                                                 /J_/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                     /4.'7
                                                                                                                                                                                                           /J'.J    /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 :Z- .;(/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 $' 26:t:? ~s :f..!,$
    2-Aircratt              2i 11 s~                            //.j //,). 9 ?2'2.              0             CJ    CJ    17,/J      /J,/J     tJ.tJ         /          ?.        j'    '--1 /J..1 :21).tJ          J'    2,.,   !? /1.5 f?j Mi

I   3-Liat,tPh010m.
    4-Birds
    !-Clouds, OusL etc
                             j
                              ?_
                              I
                                z, > I.Z ,H
                                           ,2,

                                           I
                                                          ,/
                                                      .z. t ,j
                                                                 /J.I

                                                                '1 '7
                                                                             tJ.f 1.6
                                                                            tJ.4 tJ.I
                                                                                      1..(J      t.?
                                                                                                 /}

                                                                                                 /)       /J
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                              /)
                                                                                                                    t?
                                                                                                                    /}

                                                                                                                    JJ
                                                                                                                          tJ.o
                                                                                                                          ,,.,.,
                                                                                                                          t)_/)
                                                                                                                                     /J n
                                                                                                                                     JJ /)
                                                                                                                                     /J /.)
                                                                                                                                               tJ.o
                                                                                                                                               /1,n
                                                                                                                                               tJ ()
                                                                                                                                                         a
                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                        /J
                                                                                                                                                                       tJ
                                                                                                                                                                        /

                                                                                                                                                                       tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                  /J    120 t?.O /JI)
                                                                                                                                                                                  t. /4. ' f /4. '7 1.1.¢
                                                                                                                                                                                  /J IJJ./J      /J.t') l,1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /}

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,:;,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /}

                                                                                                                                                                                                                          t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,:;,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /}/}     t:l. L)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        a~ /J,O /J,/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /J.t'J    ao 0/7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ~-0



    6-lnsuffic.lnfo.         /Q         ()          /9                      /),,      ?':-:?    c)       0          (J    /) /)      /JO      Clo        .J'           tJ          ? 14/l,/J JJ () l'-'An           3     tJ     ..1 It,,; OJJ /1..5
                                                                                                                                                                                  ,,
I   l-Psyci'IJl01ical
    &-UnknoMI
    9--0ther
                              "
                            5,f
                             R
                                       0
                                        /J
                                        /4           /4'
                                                           &,   1 ..t
                                                    s// J/9 tJ. () 11.9
                                                                 rt
                                                                            /}/J


                                                                           vi st
                                                                                      vi        0
                                                                                                2.
                                                                                                 /}
                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                   CJ
                                                                                                                    ?
                                                                                                                   /)
                                                                                                                          0/J


                                                                                                                          ,, ,,
                                                                                                                                     1.1 rJ
                                                                                                                          d/Jn I}() ld4a
                                                                                                                                               /lt)


                                                                                                                                     /)/} ',1 ()
                                                                                                                                                         /)

                                                                                                                                                        2..
                                                                                                                                                        tJ
                                                                                                                                                                       (J
                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                       1'-
                                                                                                                                                                                  L,
                                                                                                                                                                                 :Z,
                                                                                                                                                                                        /}()

                                                                                                                                                                                        /$J
                                                                                                                                                                                            tJ, t? O.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                             t?.o /f..J
                                                                                                                                                                                        /JO ,tr lf.J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,;-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !> 2/J.i tf).O 1fJ. I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /J,tJ CJ, CJ /J, /J

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4, I     4tJ       .(/I



I       Total              !1L.      '7/           £4'1 1/. 3 21.7 /t)tJ                       _j'        ::?.     s- /4/J/J 'h'J.t) /()().            /()             5"        /,:°' II.I.-;   H.J VCJti         ;t;    5 2c/ '7f 1. f!LJ.i la?,




I
                                                  ,,,, ?                                                           /y     C/                                                     1,~ 2.
                                   fwmber                PerC01I                                        Number              Per Cent                  Number                Per Cent                Number                Percent
          Evaluation       Certain Ooublful Total Certain Doubtful Total                       ertain Ooubttul Total Certain Ooublful Total r.;ertain Ooublful Total Certain Ooubtlul Total Certain Oooblful Total Certain Ooublful Tot~
    0-Balloon                /,            /           1 ?.0.1 .ff.d #1                         ..7           0     J' /1/.1 0. CJ It/.! 20                           ,.2,, :tt /./,I ·75 1/),9


I                                                     L. J(l.J ltl..1 IMt                                           4" ,/q /¢; .1 19. I //
    l•Astronomical           J         j                                                        I          ..7                                                              9 2.0 '1.1. 5.P IU
    2-Ancratt                ✓          ?             /4        /.['fl      /..9 I<''!-?        ✓            I     5      /()/J     ./it 1?1. ~         //4           , , />
                                                                                                                                                                              .U /tJ.5 /.1. I 1ft
    3-Liat,t Phenom.         /)        t7            /J         /20 /J, /J tJ. /J                /J       0        tJ      /} /,
                                                                                                                                    /J.O 1/J,tJ              1            !J_ 5 J?.O I..J' :J!
    4-Birds                  17        ,::,          CJ         ,-? r, /), 0 C).O                tJ        /}       /J    /.1,/J   ,,,   /)
                                                                                                                                              I/Jo               I          /     2.,   ,1. .,   ,J.7       ,II'


I
    5-Clouds, Oust, etc.     1:l       0              ()         /7/J      0.0 0.0               d        0        0      d,o '.-:J.O /). ()             /              I         t,    ,??'     d?' /~
    6-lnsuffic Info.         .J        0             .J' 1/J.J             o.o //J.1             ?.      t?        ?.     ~5         '7,, ,.5            ~             0           ., 5:t.       ;J /) 5:t.
    l•Psydlolo&ical                                                        o.o 1.0, t>                                                                                            ~    1.9 tJ.O .l.9
    &-Unknown
                             0
                             ...
                                       0
                                       ,..,
                                                      0
                                                          ,:-
                                                                0.0
                                                                17. 1,      ,,_ />
                                                                                     1111,
                                                                                                 /J
                                                                                                 ,:;-
                                                                                                          ,!)

                                                                                                          /J
                                                                                                                   .,
                                                                                                                    tJ ~tJ /J, 0 LJ.O   ,I,,
                                                                                                                       2!.9 l'J.O 2!.S g~
                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                       /J        .'e:; ??.9 /J. tJ 12.9
                                                                                                                                                         .,,.
I   9-0111•

        Total
                              /}




                            .21
                                      2,


                                       f
                                                     ,;         /) r, /4


                                                   t 9 ?!.I/ .ttt lt:?O.
                                                                               ~      /,. 9      :2

                                                                                               1'7
                                                                                                          0        ,t, f ,s- 17. /) 9.5

                                                                                                          ¥ 2../ lt;.o If.() la?. I//J~ ,t/-;, ;r:;-; ltU J't:7.7 vtJa
                                                                                                                                                                       .:t,        '7   CJ        /.S      ✓,,.




I                                                                                                                              199

I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                    bber
                                           11«-        r/c,,,,es
                                                       Pe,C01I
                                                                      E//AU/Ar/fllV
                                                                       Av            ,SpAA#


                                                                                            N"'ber
                                                                                                           ,ZF
                                                                                                               ,,-,,:
                                                                                                      ,;:,,L/'-?
                                                                                                                  Per Cent
                                                                                                                            a1:;v£t!-r"
                                                                                                                                        ,                   .SH/9,PE
                                                                                                                                                                /9,/P'
                                                                                                                                                                             A//?T
                                                                                                                                                                                        ...'E-~'tf~.e~s-_ _ _ __
                                                                                                                            O$JE¢-r_~~s::~¼=N~u~i':~ti1=b~S-~6_,_~=\E'-__,c.d~1--t-..____,0


                                                                                                                                                    Number                Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                             X7'4TcLJ


                                                                                                                                                                                                Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                           /9(/f'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
         Evaluation
    0-Balloon
    1-Astrommical
    2-Aircraft
                         Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                           ?/
                          /,, '}_

                          ,;5 .11
                                    ?R       ,,-9       //1    $ 4 //4'
                                    d? lltl-V I/!. tJ ff.I .tt?.1
                                              'J?L /,?.7 t..cJ 4.l
                                                                                     ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                      I
                                                                                      ✓
                                                                                       I
                                                                                                  tl
                                                                                                  /
                                                                                                  /
                                                                                                               I St? 4tJ ~o
                                                                                                          _,< ;/'('/.
                                                                                                          :2, ,.tJ
                                                                                                                             K/1 ?G,",?
                                                                                                                              .;'/J /(J./J
                                                                                                                                             ertain Doubtful Total Certain DoubtM Total Cer1ain Doubtful Total Certain Doulrtful Total

                                                                                                                                                5
                                                                                                                                                t?
                                                                                                                                                l
                                                                                                                                                        .f
                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                         2-      5' /.7/..  9. / 2.2.?
                                                                                                                                                                 3 '/7.tJ 1ft. 11.?.t. /L
                                                                                                                                                                 3 1,t_L. /JIJ /ft, d
                                                                                                                                                                                        /J           tl
                                                                                                                                                                                                   L.?
                                                                                                                                                                                                    /
                                                                                                                                                                                                            t? /J./,J     ,!2r,J
                                                                                                                                                                                                          ?6 f.J.1 ~./ 1.9.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                           5 1/.I 11. x' /.J. 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /J/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
    3-LightPhenom.
    4-Birds
    $-Clouds, Dus~ et~
                            g-
                            2..
                            ?
                                     0
                                      /
                                      tJ
                                                g /. I, /J.t? /. t
                                                  ~

                                                  ~
                                                        /J.d dft
                                                       ,vi /JtJ e1. ✓
                                              9g lf.tJ /J /J lf.t?
                                                                            tN
                                                                                      t?
                                                                                      tJ

                                                                                      J
                                                                                       /J
                                                                                               t?
                                                                                              tJ
                                                                                                  t?       Ll
                                                                                                          t?
                                                                                                          tJ
                                                                                                                    /J/J

                                                                                                                    /J.tJ
                                                                                                                             17.t? tJ.tJ
                                                                                                                             /J/J ,:J.tJ
                                                                                                                    ,a tJ t:?.tJ t:ltJ
                                                                                                           ✓ 2t?tJ t? tJ f!l)tJ
                                                                                                                                                2.
                                                                                                                                                tJ
                                                                                                                                                /J
                                                                                                                                                        tJ

                                                                                                                                                         n
                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                 :z. fl &ltJ f. I t?
                                                                                                                                                                  I tJ./,l 4(5 {/ 5
                                                                                                                                                                 tJ t2t? tJ.LI /J/1
                                                                                                                                                                  7 Vil /20 .fl.S'
                                                                                                                                                                                        /J
                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                     /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                     /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                           t? t?tJ /J/J /ltJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Cl   ao /7.t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                            tJ t?t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                           // I//
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         t?O LJ.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '1/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
    i-lllSUffic.-.fo.     ¥5'         0                                                        /J                                                'f      /J                             (I           /J                ,?./J I/. I
    7-Psycholo&ical
    8-UnMo..
    9-0111..
                             '}_
                         ///,.
                          .f2.
                                       I          .? 1124 ll. :2,
                                      tl //t- ff_,; ,f!/,J 22.5
                                      5   .?? I.t. 2: I.I/ 7.1!
                                                                            tJ.tJ,    I
                                                                                      <
                                                                                       cl.
                                                                                              tJ
                                                                                               /]

                                                                                               /J
                                                                                                           / 5.tJ atJ 5:tJ
                                                                                                          s- 25"t? 11.t? f,;-:t)
                                                                                                          Z lit!tJ Cl-tl /tJ.&1
                                                                                                                                                /,J
                                                                                                                                                /
                                                                                                                                                tl
                                                                                                                                                         I?
                                                                                                                                                         ;?

                                                                                                                                                         /J      0
                                                                                                                                                                  ,:l /,J/J ao 4.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                  I 4(5 t:?.o ¢.,; CJ
                                                                                                                                                                      at? /ltl ell'? 2.
                                                                                                                                                                                        !7          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                     tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                    /,J
                                                                                                                                                                                                            tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                            tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                            ?,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 tJ.t? ,:J,tJ t:l.Cl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 d.tJ /J/J C}tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5:d. ,?.t'/ s:t.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
I       Total            ,fo i !OK !>/t 17?.I M.f lt7t'-                             I&'     2,         .Zo l?tW1/titl /t?tl.                 It.      6        22, [ft? 215 la7.            2. 2. /f'    f(,    ,!,/./ .J£9 /al
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
         Evaluation
                                    Number
                                             /q,,_,,,
                                                        Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                          /¥5"/
                                                                                                      PerCa,t                 N111mer               Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                /P5fl.,
                                                                                                                                                                            Nuober               PerC01t
                         Certain Doubtful Tot.al Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtlul Total pertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu Total Cer1ain Doubtlul Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
    0-Balloon               .2..      (      J'l ✓.1 2. '2- .t.5 cJ                 /       I t?/J ?.;' 2.g 25 -?d 4'? 1. 2,                                  1</.1          t.!
                                                                                                                                              ,,,,,.
    l·As1ronorllical
    2-Airaalt
    3-Liat,t Pllew,m.
                            7
                             9

                            .0
                                      .f
                                      5
                                       /J
                                              ;Z, /9. f,
                                              I Z, 15:t 1/J 9 21,./
                                                  tJ I) t?
                                                                   /,._,<   '2t./

                                                                   /] /J /J/J
                                                                                      ,/}


                                                                                      2--
                                                                                       I
                                                                                               .z
                                                                                               tl
                                                                                                  6      I/. 2,1.? Is_ t, J't.5
                                                                                                           ;/ I/< {-'.S- !.tJ 19 1':t,
                                                                                                           I 2-.J /J.tJ .1.J' 5
                                                                                                                                                       /L       d..? ?: !l
                                                                                                                                                                La 1/J_ 9
                                                                                                                                                                             {(,:,
                                                                                                                                                                            £.J' 112,
                                                                                                                                                                 5" /</ tJ.tJ I / ¢
                                                                                                                                                                                     /2.<'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                   /J /) ,,, ,.,
                                                                                                                                   ,?
    4-Binls                  /)       /,)         tJ {l./,J                                   /J          (J        /Jt? /J/J                   ?.               .z, I,?,/. /J.tl /J L.
                                                        ,,,,,, ,117 "10               ,?                                            ~/}



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                       17
    S-Clouds, Dus~ etc       tJ        0          /J                                  /J      ,?           tJ /2 /J /J /J           /]/]         z..    ,,,      $ It? ,r. /10 ,a~
    6-lnsuffic. Info.        I,,       tJ         /. 11.tJ t?O 11'.tl                 d'       I?         /,/ ?. I tl.t?             t;_/      -,"f     n       7'.f !?/,t) /J,O 2/./,
    I-Psychological          /J       0           o lo.o            /111    tJ.O       /      0           / 2s /2/} 2 ..1 /J                            I        I l2tJ /JJ' /J.1
    8-Unkno.a              //J        /J      ltl 2/.7 tJ.0 2/.7 ;J'                         tJ          /J' 2N t}.() :2f.5 lt7                                 $1 t!i".t> t'.J.tJ 2~t,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                        tJ
    9-0tfler                J          tJ      .7 ,r..s- O.tJ 1... 5 d                        I?           </ ?. I           /J/J    f. I     :2 /      ~       26   £.CJ    f.U -7,d

        Total            f1           9      4~ l~t?~ /4,t I/JO. ..15                          9        #' 11?.,;' &J,5 /t'(J.               4i',,;    t 1' Ni' fi'/1,,: 19.,; lltJtJ.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                        200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
I
I
I                           tli&'.LE


                                        Number
                                                    ALL fEA/i"S
                                                              PerCEflt                Number
                                                                                                                19 d7
                                                                                                            Per Cent                Number                Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                               l<i 4.f
                                                                                                                                                                                  Number                Percent
                                Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total ~ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /9 4-9
              Evaluation
                                                                                                                                   ,_,,
I   0-Balloon
        1-Astionomical
        2-Aircraft
                                 9'i
                                 41
                                           .n /'10 ,7/,4 l,l..4 J.!.1
                                       .J3 111 9.'1 "1.'I 111 J
                                 ,t.'! l'i 10 7,() 4.t, JU
                                                                                         ti
                                                                                          ()
                                                                                          0
                                                                                                         p
                                                                                                         .2
                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                 ~
                                                                                                                 Q
                                                                                                                  0      P.P
                                                                                                                         /JO
                                                                                                                         IJ.O ()_p
                                                                                                                                   ,~.     ~
                                                                                                                                                /J.O
                                                                                                                                                IM,

                                                                                                                                                l},(J
                                                                                                                                                          .5
                                                                                                                                                          ,d_
                                                                                                                                                          ()
                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                          (J
                                                                                                                                                                                'I ,;(~., '1.1 1~,
                                                                                                                                                                                Q
                                                                                                                                                                                 !l Jo.I 1 . ., I.H'
                                                                                                                                                                                     o.o        /J.O LJ.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I         4.o /J.() ,l.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /7 ~~.o 1/,(I /.i,t,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ;A. 4o d.l.J                 l.o
        3-Light Pha1om.            4 3 7 /LJ IJ.1 l,'1                                                           0        O.o                              ~                     0                                                          D ,.,_.

I
                                                                                          t)              0                        QO           '1.0                   0               ,I) ()   t),O     00              ,:?     ()                              /) 0   /) 0
                                                          (J                                                      0                                                              p 0. I) P.O 0,0                                            0 O.o
    4-Birds                       tl            0              £1,,1,    0.0 L?,(I        I)             0               ,n,-,     0.,:?        0."       J!J             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         "          0                            d,O    00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,,,_.,
    S-Clouds, Dus~ etc.
        6-tnsuffit.lnfo.
        7-Psyd1olo1ical
                                  d
                                 -2,
                                 II
                                                (,
                                                0
                                                /
                                                      /()        I.P
                                                     .2-6 L..; 0.(l
                                                      I :l ,,1.L o.,
                                                                                ,.~
                                                                         J.(J .2./

                                                                                ,U
                                                                                         0
                                                                                          0.         0
                                                                                                         (II     0
                                                                                                                 ()
                                                                                                                  ~
                                                                                                                         () 0
                                                                                                                         0.0
                                                                                                                         ,,
                                                                                                                       o.o O.o
                                                                                                                                   On
                                                                                                                                   0.0
                                                                                                                                                Q,0
                                                                                                                                                O.o
                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                          .:l.     0
                                                                                                                                                                      0


                                                                                                                                                                      ,,        0
                                                                                                                                                                                 0 ,.o 0,,., o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                 i J.l'.4 t).o 1.r.4
                                                                                                                                                                                        /)~              O.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .:,    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0         ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .2.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I     ,10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /J 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      l.o 0.0 !lo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          o.o 4o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ""
I
                                                                                         0           0                        ~                                                                 t).(l                     /      0
        8-Unknown                71/            0 19 /1?.o /In 'Jt/.o                    t)          0           0 0.0 t:JO o.o                            "
                                                                                                                                                           0          0         4 ().0 O,,:? tl.O                        J       0         :).. 9.P             ,0,0    Se1
    !I-Other                     /J             7 2a 3./ /.1 4.8                         b           0           0 o.o o.o lo.o                             I          I        2. 1.1 1.7 /DI-                          d       0         tJ         /},,,     0.0     0 O

                                .296 /.2-t) 411,, 1'7/.2 ~fl /PP,                        0          .a           ,;z O.o /NJ.I) Vell'.                   ,o                    /3 1d ,u., /6',? If                              ,o ,,,2J WJ.o ,/o.o 1100.
I   i                                                                                                                                                              3
             Total




I             Evaluation
        0-Ballooa
                                        Number
                                                      /9 ro
                                                              Percent                 Number
                                                                                                                / 9..rl
                                                                                                            Per Cent
                                Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                  ,t'       e,        j        ,i,_4     0.-" t,_4 A                     0        'f I..U.J
                                                                                                                                                                 Nuntier
                                                                                                                                                                                /'1 r2
                                                                                                                                                                                      Per Cent                Numbor               Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                         ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                   -'•-~ 1.5 .r-o /J~ ~1.1 14.i a1.J
                                                                                                                                    r7,,
                                                      J                                  .:l..                       ) 1/.8 /1./.. 11? ,J, .,,., /£' 1/0 l.s .(3 J/.3
I
        I-Astronomical            .1-       0                   11'1     0,/1   :J:1,7               3
        2·Aircraft                                    Q         o.o                        I              I          A J"(j .!".9 11.K .;17                                    l;if Jo          .J'o /3.t
                                   "        0                            0.(}    /1,0
                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                  17
                                                                                                                                                                                                      9 .v
        3-Liiht Phenom.
        4-Binls
                                   D
                                   0
                                               0

                                               0
                                                      0
                                                       j
                                                                1),0
                                                                t) 0
                                                                         0,0 ,, 0
                                                                         0 O PO
                                                                                          " .o
                                                                                          t)
                                                                                                         0        0
                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                          tl.1
                                                                                                                         A()
                                                                                                                                    /).0
                                                                                                                                    /J,O
                                                                                                                                                 no
                                                                                                                                                 (J t)     0
                                                                                                                                                                  3
                                                                                                                                                                   0            0
                                                                                                                                                                                 7 /,,2
                                                                                                                                                                                        ().()
                                                                                                                                                                                                 I)

                                                                                                                                                                                                0. 0     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                               lo 1...2 l.f .l.O
I       5-Cloud~ Dus~ et~
        6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
        7•Psyctmlo11ical
        a.unknown
                                   0
                                   ~

                                   l
                                   .,       0
                                            0
                                               0
                                               0
                                                      ~
                                                      ..t. i1.I
                                                      3
                                                                0,0



                                                      2, 9.1 "·" 14.1
                                                               /.3-6,
                                                                      .,·
                                                                         "-" O,o
                                                                         ,, 0


                                                                         0(1
                                                                                 9/
                                                                                11.H
                                                                                          ,1

                                                                                           I
                                                                                          ,.
                                                                                                     0




                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                     0 IJ.,
                                                                                                                  I .r:;; O.o .r.9
                                                                                                                  0 0.0 /J,, P.o
                                                                                                                     ~ ~/1
                                                                                                                                   II 0



                                                                                                                                    0.0 24.4 7tJ
                                                                                                                                                 0,t)     4-
                                                                                                                                                          /4
                                                                                                                                                           7
                                                                                                                                                                   'I "B I
                                                                                                                                                                   e,


                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                       ..r:t.
                                                                                                                                                                                       .2
                                                                                                                                                                               70 .:J/J,i
                                                                                                                                                                                                /1/J

                                                                                                                                                                                                o,E
                                                                                                                                                                                                         .r:1,
                                                                                                                                                                                                          14
                                                                                                                                                                                                t7.IJ .:J/J9


I   9-0ther


             Tot~
                                  ,7


                                ;;io
                                            ,..2


                                           .:2
                                                      :z. 0.0 9./ f/.J
                                                     ~~        tf/p_(j   '1.I ii()(/, /3
                                                                                          0          0

                                                                                                     (f
                                                                                                                  0      (J.d      rJ A


                                                                                                                /7 1/..S ;1.3..r /(/(), :,38
                                                                                                                                                ao       I~           4        It, .!,I:,

                                                                                                                                                                  'I 'f !~7 i1P.G ~9.¢- /00
                                                                                                                                                                                                l.:l 4.S




I                                       Number
                                                ALL ~ARS
                                                              Percent
                                                                         .SPE.-A.5


                                                                                      Number
                                                                                                  ,.,~          ,-,4 EtZr.5
                                                                                                                 H?~?
                                                                                                            Per Cent                Nuntler
                                                                                                                                                .S-(teHT«IIG S:
                                                                                                                                               LeSS             -UAA/



                                                                                                                                                          Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                E&
                                                                                                                                                                               /1A,£

                                                                                                                                                                               /9 4,,(
                                                                                                                                                                                  Number
                                                                                                                                                                                            d" J/.e,?£5
                                                                                                                                                                                                       --           ..,,, ,rs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               If//
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,.,,<:.,,_

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /qt'2.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               u/1//R


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PerCml



I       0.Balloon
        I-Astronomical
        2 Aircraft
         4
              Evaluation        Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Do!Dtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu

                                 4? .J 0 19 19A 1/.i JI,
                                        liq. 9.1 8.3 11.4
                                 _.,.:t ~ )
                                Jo ~1 If 3 '1.'1 9. I 17.o
                                                                                          t1
                                                                                          /)
                                                                                              I
                                                                                                     ()
                                                                                                         ()


                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                 tl
                                                                                                                 tJ
                                                                                                                     I   .ro...i
                                                                                                                          /J..O
                                                                                                                                    /).(J

                                                                                                                                    0.0 ,o
                                                                                                                          11.o P.o P.O
                                                                                                                                          _,..,,,, JI
                                                                                                                                                   r
                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                      ,l
                                                                                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                               /0
                                                                                                                                                                               Il
                                                                                                                                                                                ;t
                                                                                                                                                                                     .J1 I.      L.~ ~4-:;
                                                                                                                                                                                       11.2 ,<4,I 4U
                                                                                                                                                                                       .3.4 _g_4 LA                   ,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         x'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 J-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                __,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            s di'.> Jl.o l.hJ.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          13 :f;i 0 )p,O .1'2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ~        /J,d       Jo     ,_,,

I
        3-Liaht Phenom.              .3   1 IJ.O /.~ /.2                                                         (7       tl.o O.o                                        0     0       /) /1   ,IJ,(}   LJ.o         t:?                    0
        4-Birds
                                 ,!)

                                   I..          I      7 ~4 IJ,4 2A                       0
                                                                                              0      0
                                                                                                     0           ti       /),.,    II. 0 11,p
                                                                                                                                                "·"       ,f)

                                                                                                                                                          tfJ      ~            ()      ,,,., (Jtl 0.0                 p         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       17.0 Pon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 O.P O.IJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,., ,.,
        5-Cloud~ Dus~ et~         .r ..2               7 :Z.o o.r :u·                     0          0           ()       (/;,     tJ,d         11'1       ~          0         D      /J,/1  o.o / } "                  (7      0          0         (), (J     (JO    tJO
        6-lnsutfic.lnfo.           r        0          a    ~-'
                                                              /)., u                      (7         e,          j       ~,,        I),,        /1,/1      I          ,.,        I     .U1      /J,O     .3.4             I      p           I        4.o        0.0    4o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,,,,., /} (I 0.0
I       7-Psycoolo&ical
        8-UnknoMI
    9-0ther
                                  ,;}..
                                 49
                                   S'
                                           0
                                            0
                                            4
                                                          l    10.I
                                                     'f9 Jq.3 tl.O J(Ja
                                                      I 1. 3.1
                                                                         tJ.O


                                                                         u. 4-,
                                                                                 /JI      0
                                                                                          tJ
                                                                                           /
                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                 tJ
                                                                                                                 t)
                                                                                                                 J
                                                                                                                         P.IJ
                                                                                                                         tJ.t>
                                                                                                                         S'O.o 0.D
                                                                                                                                    ()"

                                                                                                                                   0.0 0.0
                                                                                                                                                tl./1


                                                                                                                                               ~o.d
                                                                                                                                                           I/)
                                                                                                                                                           /
                                                                                                                                                          (7       .3
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                       ,!J,(}

                                                                                                                                                                                       J.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                I) 0

                                                                                                                                                                                3 ().() lp.,3 /11,?
                                                                                                                                                                                                         1d
                                                                                                                                                                                                            /I.I>        ()

                                                                                                                                                                                                                         s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3 /:J,.O IJ.O ,,~ 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I .:Jo             0 0 ltJo




I            Total               170       Bil IH'.a ti,.~ 3J./ /PO,                     .2.         0           ;t /()/(~ ,!l,() I/....., I I,                    /3 ,:Z&/ .r.r:2 14.I /1)0                         1   'f     I(       .:2.r s(.o             44.o VPP.




I             Evaluation
                                          fmmber
                                                      /9.ro
                                                              Per Cent                  Number
                                                                                                  /9 J7
                                                                                                              Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                                                                /9.1-..:?
                                                                                                                                                            Percent                 Number                Per Cent
                                Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total ic;ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total ~ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                  .r                           11... 3.d. -1(),/,.                                I -?M IJ.0 ,,,,,, j',$ ;1.J $'6 2tJ.I /4.11 1~,
                                                       '
        0-Balloon                               I                                            )           ,::,
                                                                                                                   I 1),0 ~0.IJ 120.0 q

I       I-Astronomical
        2-Aircraft
        :1-Liiht Phenom.
        4•Birds
                                   I
                                   (
                                   p
                                   p
                                            0


                                            0
                                             0


                                                0
                                                       I


                                                       '
                                                       0
                                                       0
                                                                3.4 (),tJ J.~
                                                               .:Jn,1 0.0 :I.IJ.'
                                                                t).O

                                                                0.D
                                                                         0.0
                                                                         D.11
                                                                                 1),0

                                                                                "· 0
                                                                                          0
                                                                                          I
                                                                                          C)

                                                                                          0          0
                                                                                                         '
                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                   I i.:/1.0

                                                                                                                  0 o.o O.&J 0.IJ
                                                                                                                                 1..71.o 1.2. ..20 3 2 7.3 /,2 ..,;i /9.f
                                                                                                                                   "·"
                                                                                                                  0 n.o /J,(J 11'.> c, (J ~
                                                                                                                                                I 17 f.J ,t,tl ,,, '1.

                                                                                                                                                     3 0.0 J.l /,K
                                                                                                                                          t I 7 .! 1 0,1,, 1/,3

I       5--Clouds. Oust. etc.
        6-lnsuftic. ~lo.
        7-Psyd1olo1ical
        8-Ullkno•
                                  I

                                 14
                                   0


                                  ,P
                                            0
                                            0

                                            0
                                            0
                                                       0

                                                       0
                                                           I JJ

                                                      I# 4,(_~
                                                                "" .3.4.
                                                                o.o

                                                                o.o
                                                                         o.P
                                                                         0,0
                                                                                0.0


                                                                                o.O
                                                                         0.0 ,J.f~
                                                                                          0

                                                                                          "
                                                                                          b
                                                                                         .:l..
                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                     b
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                  ()   11,0
                                                                                                                         O.o
                                                                                                                             "-" fJ. 0 .r ..2.
                                                                                                                                   I)_ 0

                                                                                                                          O.o n - ,.o
                                                                                                                 :l 4o.o 0.0 ktn.o ol'I
                                                                                                                                                0.0
                                                                                                                                                    7 .3.IJ I~ t/. ~
                                                                                                                                                          .r 0
                                                                                                                                                          ,.l_    0
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                ! 3.o
                                                                                                                                                                                l b
                                                                                                                                                                               l? /'1,1
                                                                                                                                                                                                 o.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                 tl,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0 17.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                         .J.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                            I.,



I       JOthe,


             Total
                                  /

                                 18
                                            0


                                            I
                                                          I     .H

                                                     .29 9t.4' ,M /Pt:7.
                                                                         t1.0    J.t2     0

                                                                                         If
                                                                                                     0


                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                 0 IJ.O P.o o.o

                                                                                                                 ~- itJ.o h.O
                                                                                                                                    J-


                                                                                                                                               1/,:v.,   IO/,
                                                                                                                                                                      I         t .?o
                                                                                                                                                                  f8 I/IA 14,t. J.U //Jt),
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.1, .?.,




I                                                                                                                                 201

I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                       1i/A'LE


                                   tmmber
                                          dt?:j

                                          ALL.         VcA.R5'
                                                                $;,"#="·"'


                                                                Pa Cent
                                                                                         />C
                                                                                                  t2F


                                                                                              Number
                                                                                                                -£1.t..
                                                                                                           /14..J_.A_,S"

                                                                                                                Jtl ¢7 /
                                                                                                                    Per Cent
                                                                                                                                           /7,41£

                                                                                                                                            Number
                                                                                                                                                       u,,A,A"eP



                                                                                                                                                                  Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                            /94,t
                                                                                                                                                                                   -r-(7   .,:-c7"'""

                                                                                                                                                                                          Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                           /m/A4£/J



                                                                                                                                                                                                                Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,(',g:,qg.e TE 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AAU&e


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /949
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PER,       dn,,,1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
     Evaluation        Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                         ,
                                                                                       ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total ~•rlain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobllul Total Certain Doubllul Toi~

                                                                                                                                                               r                   4.3 ~,. 1 11'.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,, 4 :z. .r.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                             :z.                                      £7.0 .r. I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                        P<'t                  3(.                  J.:J lid                                     3       Jh tJ.fJ /J:o                    I
                                                                                                                                                                             '
0-Balloon                            /O                 i.:1                                      0                                                                                                                        0
                                                                   ,_,, JI.()                     a             0                                                                          A.~ 11,!,
l•AstrollOlllical
2•Aircrlft
                         d.      15 S-.c.
                                    /'1
                        ?.2 JJ- 107 "J:J,J JJ.o n.1
                                                                                        "I        0              I
                                                                                                                        ~.O
                                                                                                                        J:o
                                                                                                                                   /J.O
                                                                                                                                   () 0
                                                                                                                                            /1.b
                                                                                                                                            .r.o
                                                                                                                                                       .?
                                                                                                                                                       4
                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                             LJ l?o
                                                                                                                                                                              S 11.4 tf..~ .,~..,            &,    t.           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           11.o      In.!, 1,.~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.r:4 1.r.4 Jo.I
3-Liflt Ptienom.          d         2

                                                '
                                                        I>.       0.1. l'i               I        0              I      J~O       0.0 .r.o
                                                                                                                        tu, ,,,., /1.()
                                                                                                                                                        I       I             ;t. d1 4,.3           Fl'      0     0                0       r, ~      o.o       11.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
     _                                                   "-~ p                                                                                                                                                                      d
                                                                                                                                                                                                            "".f " g
4·Birds                    b          I            I    0.tJ      o.~                              0            Q                                      t)       I              I /J tJ 4.~          4~                                     00         fJ.o     t) 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,,_,., o.o
                                              21 ,~ o.o J.:, "
S.Clouds. Dust, etc.                ,.2        ~      t.                     I.(.                               0       ,,,0                ().0       0        tJ            4 11.IJ                              0                0
                          "
                                                        tJ.IJ     lJ,                             b                                /)./)                                                   O.t!I 0.0                                        /J,o
6-lnsuffic. -.a,.       a?t           0                                                  I        0              I      J'.o       ().0     J:o        ,2_      0            2. .K.1 /J.O .K 1                      p                     .:lt1.J'   AO ~,.f

..
7-Psydlolo~CII           6
                        rr
                                     2
                                     0
                                                   f 1-'i o.t.
                                              iJ 1-2.7.8           0.0
                                                                             ,U
                                                                            .n., / /
                                                                                         J        /
                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                ~       J:o J:o 10.0
                                                                                                                I I .(.('_o       JJ.()    vr.o        3"       0
                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                             0 tJ.o i!),tJ DO
                                                                                                                                                                             '3 J.1.0 0.0 JJ.tJ /.~
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0 t9.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                13 33.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      17.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IJ.tJ J3.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                tJ.P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
~Iller                     ?          I        p        7-,       o.~ JS                     I        e,         I        J:o     O.tJ      J:o                0             D 00 P. 0 00 p                        0             0 ,'J.IJ             (),() o.o

                                                                                                                                                       " ,, ,l:3 IL.._o/' ~9./
     Tobi               2'15 7l .J/1 1'17.'~ ;l,:,,7 lnA, /</                                     I            .u, l~:o f.O /()IJ. /J./                                                            Ila> :L-9       ,o ~9 -,,,u ,,tJ:6 /()11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
      Enluation
0-Mloon                       I,
                                Number


                                          I
                                              /4 .ro
                                                       Per Cent                Number

                                                                                        ,iZ.
                                                                                                     Per Cent


                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                /9,.r-/

                        Certain OOllbtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Ootmtful Total Certain Doobllul Tollll
                                               1 17.(. 2.9 2 A f                                                  ,:? 1~3          /)./)   Id~ /,;/.
                                                                                                                                                               -4
                                                                                                                                                                             /~ r;:1.



                                                                                                                                                                            I~
                                                                                                                                                                                  Per Cent


                                                                                                                                                                                   t.4 2.1          ;,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                         llmber              Per Cm!
                                                                                                                                                     ertain Doubllul Total Certain Doubtful Total Certin Dnubtfu Total Certin O...bllul Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
1-A-ical
1-Airaafl
HiJjlll'll<nom.            0
                              I
                              ~
                                      0
                                         0
                                          3    4 2-'f ~.! II?
                                               /,. /7,(. LIO 111.
                                               0    t)() 0.0 ().0
                                                                                         I
                                                                                        4---
                                                                                        0
                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                      a
                                                                                                                 .:J 7.1           1. I 11,(2 I/
                                                                                                                .r .:Jfl 7. I t,:1 ..;
                                                                                                                 0      t1.tJ     o.o o.o              ,,l..
                                                                                                                                                                /0 :,, ,J",f/ J' .3 J/.2
                                                                                                                                                               .,J7 7! l..27.3 Jtl.4 41.1
                                                                                                                                                                     I      .3     I./ tu.- II.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
4-Birds                    0          0        0        /J.Q      0. 0       n.o        0             0          n                O.P       IJ.O                     0       p     /),I)    P.O () 0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                        00
5-Cloud~ Dvs~ et~             (l        0      0        O.o       0.0       ,, /I        I)           CJ        ,:,     fJ.0 "0 ;;, ,)
                                                                                                                                  O.o     I. I I I
                                                                                                                                            O.p                                    (l.D

                                              .r /4.7
6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
7-Psycllalo~cal
                          ~
                              I      0
                                        0
                                               I       .:l.'1 tJ."
                                                                  P.O       141
                                                                             ,,:,
                                                                                         0
                                                                                        t)
                                                                                                  "
                                                                                                  ()
                                                                                                                ()00 00
                                                                                                                0 O.o   o.o
                                                                                                                            /p
                                                                                                                             ,,_ 0
                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                    /0
                                                                                                                                    f
                                                                                                                                  L) 0
                                                                                                                                          /)0 J'3
                                                                                                                                            0.()

                                                                                                                                       ,V t1..r J.,
                                                                                                                                                                                   ~~


8-Unkno•                /o                    /0       .29.4 tP.n           ?4/l        4                       4 :79& o.o '1"1. 4?                                        ld7 ,<J:J t!l.o IH:1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                      0                                                           0                                                             0
~111..                    (l         /         I       tl.0       ,u F'I                 I        0              I      1/ 0.() '1 I                  .r        0            .r .?-7 o.o ~-1
     Tolll              1'!          5        .N f.J~~ /4.7 JOO. I .2- a /4 in 14.3 /pp                                                              /Ill      tH /11 :1[4 ..14. I ,,,,,


                                          ALI... YE,4R<'
                                                                E V/li-fi!lUt?I/I
                                                                SPecn <                  /7,;:-               /141.e:1rs

                                                                                                                /941'
                                                                                                                                                    ,,.,,E.e             Cr>p_,e
                                                                                                                                                                            /94P
                                                                                                                                                                                     L/,M,Ade,0             AA'LE5                   A?F,e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               /~ ,::fq
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     </r>V.12             I
                                Number                 Percent                 Number                PerC"11                  Nuntier               Per Cent               Number               PerCml
      Evaluation
~Balloon
1-Astronomical
                        Certain Doubtful Tot.al Certain Doubtful Total Certain Ootmlful Total Certain Doobtful To!lll Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certin Ooubtfu Total Certain O...bllul Toi~
                        ,,u ~/ rr 3..:i 4.1
                         9,f        74 17.Z 13. I ?.9 ,..;J,e,
                                                                13
                                                                                        /()
                                                                                             I        0              I .:?./.
                                                                                                      4 14 11£.3 /OJ I.JL.i
                                                                                                                                   /J /1     1[        ,;t..
                                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                                                .r
                                                                                                                                                                ?
                                                                                                                                                                              7     4" /0.o No
                                                                                                                                                                             JtJ ld,o /4.o ).f"
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                            J .:ZJ              ~~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I      /)_/)      I:, /.r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4.4 ~L.8 14/.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
2~Aircraft              /0/         9<1. 1<11· I/{ .r /:l..f' .2L.o                      ()        1             :l       /J /1    J":.~      ,-~      .J       ~            .r I.., 4.o lo.o                & 1                /.~         K.S      /().!, J'i.l
3-Li&hl Phenom.
4-,Birds                  ..r
                              7
                                     ~
                                        4      II
                                                   7
                                                        IJ.9
                                                        0.1 ti.-~
                                                                   /!).,J     1.4
                                                                              I.£
                                                                                         t7
                                                                                         0
                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                 tJ
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                        t)p
                                                                                                                        ...,~
                                                                                                                                  i/7.0
                                                                                                                                   0.0
                                                                                                                          ,.,,., /J.I) O.t?
                                                                                                                                            0.11
                                                                                                                                             D.o
                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                 ..j
                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                             4 J.o (.o 2.o
                                                                                                                                                                             ,  ~-" ~.d 4o
                                                                                                                                                                                                            ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                            .:2.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I')

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /J,O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ~ .'J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (l.(l 0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      J..r      M         I
5-Cloud~ Dvst. el~
6-lnsuffic.lnfo.         .r4
                              I         0
                                        0
                                                   I
                                                        "·'
                                              .r4 '/..:1. tJ.O 1:J.
                                                                   0.0        0.J        0
                                                                                         .2
                                                                                                  ()

                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                 ~   J:3 /?.O .('j ..,-
                                                                                                                                                       /)

                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                L)           0
                                                                                                                                                                             _('
                                                                                                                                                                                   P.o 1/.0 tJ.o
                                                                                                                                                                                   In.~    n,b /(JD
                                                                                                                                                                                                             L)
                                                                                                                                                                                                             .t'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0      t:J.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ..,.. -J.4 o.O 7¢
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      t).O      tJ./J


I-Psychological
S-Unkno111
9-0lher
                       1.214-
                        ,11
                              7

                                    4
                                     .-l
                                      0
                                              /0        t?.9       0 4-
                                              2,d .:lf.J ao 1f C I.~
                                              .3 I .H t).J" tJ.. I ./
                                                                              1.3        tJ
                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                   I             I        .t /_ :J.t. /7
                                                                                                                        P.O
                                                                                                               /.~ l~(.2 t!J.O I.M2 J/
                                                                                                                J' 13.:I. 11.0 lh2 J
                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                               t?
                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                             JI
                                                                                                                                                                            ..t.
                                                                                                                                                                                   /) ()

                                                                                                                                                                                   ~7.D
                                                                                                                                                                                            0. 0
                                                                                                                                                                                           0.11 Ho
                                                                                                                                                                                   J.o :Jo 4,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                    o.o      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Ii
                                                                                                                                                                                                             .'}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0            I 1..r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I [ 22./
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .z ,),I!/ /1,0 .2.'1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A (J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                / . .1·

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              "· I        I
     Total              nr :i,2 li'fo 1/.1 ~J.3 Inn                                    "3/        7 ..Jt JJ.(. lf.4 /PO. Ji                                    If           .ro /.,J.D .3,f,o      /()()   ?,If    ']If ,(,f So.o So.o                        IDD.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
      Evaluatioo
                                   tmmber
                                              /4fo
                                                      PerC"11                   Number                Percent
                                                                                                                /9J7
                                                                                                                                Number                Percent
                                                                                                                                                                            /t;J-:J
                                                                                                                                                                              Number                Per Cent
                        Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total i:;ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total r.;ertain Ootmtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobllul Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
0-Balloon                 4               0        4- 71          t7. t) 7/              I                I     ,:t       'JIJJ J'o /{,. 24 4D 3.:1. 4.i .I 0
1-Astronomical
2-Aircraft
3-Li&fl!Phenom.
                          J


                          "
                           'i       d
                                      0
                                        4'    II u. IL I
                                              /3 111..1 7./
                                               ()       ().b      n,, o.o
                                                                            .,~
                                                                            /(J'
                                                                                  ")
                                                                                        /.'!
                                                                                         ¢
                                                                                         I
                                                                                         ,.,
                                                                                                       J
                                                                                                      '7
                                                                                                      D
                                                                                                                11/. J,2,J   .l.Il.1'.7o (.:J .:lf 9/ 12.7 s.t. l2~
                                                                                                                  t. Jn.o fo /J~o 7<i 71 JJ'{. Jc-4 /1'.J JI¢
                                                                                                                  I ,l,J ,.o ~.r .;- I
                                                                                                                 ,,
                                                                                                                                                     (,   /.t? 0.2 /.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
     _
4-Birds                    ()        0         0       0.0        o.o O.tJ                            0
                                                                                                                      ,.,,., n.n b,0 ..2. ()         2 o., /).() A.4
5-Clouds, Dus~ el~
6-lnsaffic.11113.

..
7-Psydlololical
                          0

                          0
                              ,      0
                                     0
                                     0
                                               0

                                               0
                                                7
                                                        on
                                                       /~.J
                                                        tJ.()
                                                                   11.0
                                                                   bf)

                                                                   o.o
                                                                            0.()

                                                                            IJ.r
                                                                             0.0
                                                                                         0
                                                                                         ,')

                                                                                         ()
                                                                                                  ()
                                                                                                  ,.,
                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                     00 l'J.0 o.o
                                                                                                                     0.0     ().0

                                                                                                                 I o.o ..1.J· 2.r
                                                                                                                                   0.D
                                                                                                                                           I

                                                                                                                                           ~
                                                                                                                                               p
                                                                                                                                               /)

                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                      I &.2 /J,l'l ,,,,..,
                                                                                                                                                      ~,-
                                                                                                                                                   .J.r 1o 0.0 7.o
                                                                                                                                                     .., I :7 0.2 1'1.                                                                                                    I
                         /7          0        /7 .Jo.4 ,.,,., .1.4                      n         0            /3 J.1,J IJ.0 h. J '14.1        0 l1d.1· ~91 t?,O .29.1
~



     Tolli
                         .:z
                        II I
                                    ..2

                                    I~
                                               ¢ ,J. {, J.I, 7.4

                                              .rt.     n.~ ~L.i             /,1)/J
                                                                                        3

                                                                                       35
                                                                                                  "             J '?J' ,.o '1..- JI- I              1J• . u


                                                                                                  S" 14-o i?J /,2.J' I= J" 112 l,{/Q,f 1.1.r 2, ..r /()I}.
                                                                                                                                                               0.? .f.<!J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                  202
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
I
I
I                                      Number
                                               AI-L YF.ARS
                                                             PerCertt
                                                                     £1(,?L/MrttlA/
                                                                             e,,               /7,I<'"


                                                                                             Number
                                                                                                             ,;:J~
                                                                                                                 t7.'A,,/•&.ITS
                                                                                                             /,f 4-,
                                                                                                                         ALL



                                                                                                                   Per Cent
                                                                                                                                S/6/t'.Tlt/lG 5

                                                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                                                  F.C?,1!.      All
                                                                                                                                             M.'e,e.,,.,,,, - L / K E

                                                                                                                                                        Number
                                                                                                                                                                     /9d&-
                                                                                                                                                                              Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                               t,(<v9,eS
                                                                                                                                                                                                  SP.'l!:eo.s

                                                                                                                                                                                                      Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /9       <t,;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Per Cent



I
             EV11111bon        Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total          ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total               ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain DCRlbtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
        0-S.lloon                 /,)     3          3      /l.(l   ,<.O ,,?.o         t:)          0          t:)             ll.O ,l'.J.o        p        0              o., (l,(l 0,1)              t:)             ,:,     ,G,&)     ,O,(l      L!.t:>
        1-Astmnomical           .r'J _/4 9/ I.U.J ».8 I~//                             .3
                                                                                                                      0()

                                                                                                                                                               1     "
                                                                                                                                                                     13 1./1.J 4JU IIU                  ,fl    "
                                                                                                                                                                                                               (.      t       P.&) /p(J,O ;..,,,_,,
        2-Aircraft              /0        ~         /;).    L.i     u l.o              ,()
                                                                                                 t':J
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                               .:/ lnnA
                                                                                                               ,.,    ,,A
                                                                                                                               ll.P /~o

                                                                                                                               "·"     (). 0       '
                                                                                                                                                   0        0         0      nt1      ,,, ,, t?.o      ,')    0        e,      ,.,,      /) 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    "'·"
I       3-Lilht Phenom.
        4-Birds
        S-Clouds, Oust, etc.
        S-lnsuffic.lnfo.
                                  p


                                  9
                                   t)
                                   I
                                          0


                                          0
                                          0
                                              I
                                                     0
                                                      I
                                                            ll.O    t'J.O
                                                             0. 1 0.1
                                                            1).0
                                                      I o. 7 o.o I) 1
                                                     9 t,.o ,.o ,.o
                                                                             "'·"      LJ
                                                                                       0
                                                                                       C1
                                                                                        0
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                               0      Oo
                                                                                                                      0.0

                                                                                                              "'tJ IJ.o
                                                                                                                   /J,0
                                                                                                                        o.o o.o
                                                                                                                               0.0
                                                                                                                               /J.0
                                                                                                                        /J.O ().o
                                                                                                                                       /J.O
                                                                                                                                       o.o        0
                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                   p


                                                                                                                                                   p
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            .0
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                     ,..
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                             &).o
                                                                                                                                                                             &}(I

                                                                                                                                                                             t).o
                                                                                                                                                                             ,!).I)
                                                                                                                                                                                      &J.O P,O
                                                                                                                                                                                      t>.O
                                                                                                                                                                                      tJ.(l

                                                                                                                                                                                      P.O IJO
                                                                                                                                                                                              A.0
                                                                                                                                                                                              00
                                                                                                                                                                                                       t)


                                                                                                                                                                                                       p
                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                        /1
                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                              /,}

                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,:,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      e>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               &!.~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IJ."1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,tf).O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (P.,:,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         t).0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (l.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    a.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ;!Jo

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,!Jt)




I       7-Psydlolo~cal
        II-Unknown
        9-Dtt,e,
                                 0
                               ,;?7
                                  4--
                                          I
                                          0
                                          0
                                                     J /).0
                                                   -1.7 I/I
                                                                    o. 7 IJ. 7
                                                             /1. 0 II./
                                                     4 ..l-7 An .-7.?
                                                                                       0
                                                                                        /)



                                                                                       LJ
                                                                                                0


                                                                                                0
                                                                                                   0


                                                                                                              "
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                      o.o
                                                                                                                      O.o
                                                                                                                      O.o
                                                                                                                               0,0
                                                                                                                               P.O
                                                                                                                               0,0
                                                                                                                                       0.0
                                                                                                                                       o.o

                                                                                                                                       "·"'
                                                                                                                                                   t)
                                                                                                                                                   .]
                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                            0        0
                                                                                                                                                                     .4 lf.1 17.l:.l 111
                                                                                                                                                                     "
                                                                                                                                                                             LJo (l. (l


                                                                                                                                                                             b.O 0.0 /).0
                                                                                                                                                                                              (l,o     A


                                                                                                                                                                                                       p
                                                                                                                                                                                                        /,}
                                                                                                                                                                                                              0

                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                              0       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ~"'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               d.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (J"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               "·"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,,,,, o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         "·"' OD

I   I       Tot~               !Pi 41 N9 I1.t.J :l!J !I/JO.                            .J       p             .3 llt1P.o tJ.o          //)IJ.

                                                                                                                                                  "         7 /6 S'o.2. 4H IAA                         0      ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '       !,fJ_t, /<'O,(I      11,0.




I            Evaluation
        0-Balloon
                                       Number
                                                    /9ro
                                                             Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                              /9.n
                                                                                                           PerCmt
                               Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total
                                                      ,., IJ.O 0.1'.J 0.0                           ,,         o ;Jn ,,,,,, ,tJ,o
                                                                                                                                                        Number
                                                                                                                                                                     /9.r.1.
                                                                                                                                                                              Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                                                                 ertain Doubtful Tolal Certain Doubtful Total Certain Douhtfu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PerCmt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Total Certain Doobtful Total
                                  ,?      0                                             t)                                                         t)       ~         3 IJ.O { / .! I

I       I-Astronomical
        2-Aircraft
        3-Li&fltPh..,m.
                                   9
                                  ,::,
                                  p
                                          0
                                          0
                                           ?         /;'_

                                                     0
                                                     0
                                                            [/; 4Jt /~tJ.o
                                                            tP.o

                                                             "·"' 00
                                                                    P.P 0 0
                                                                                       .J
                                                                                       ,::,
                                                                                        n
                                                                                                .3
                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                               C. 1,,.,_., .-1A,0 f.1.0
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                      l!>.o
                                                                                                                       tl.o
                                                                                                                               Oo       ,,. 0
                                                                                                                                                 ,sf:,
                                                                                                                                                  /o
                                                                                                                                                            /I
                                                                                                                                                            ..1
                                                                                                                                                                     41 .fL.7 /1..2. 41~
                                                                                                                                                                     /;J     //1,.l   2. I) /~.:i

        4-Birds                    0      0          Cl LJ.o
                                                            b.O
                                                                  0.0
                                                                    ()b                0
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                0              ,., o.o 0.0 40
                                                                                                                                O.o IJ.o           I?
                                                                                                                                                   t)
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            I         "  I
                                                                                                                                                                             IJ.o
                                                                                                                                                                             tl.4'
                                                                                                                                                                                      /Jo
                                                                                                                                                                                      lo
                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                              /0

I       I-Clouds, Dus~ et~
        6-lnsuffic.lnto.
        7-Psychological
                                  0
                                  L)

                                  0
                                          /,)


                                          0
                                          0
                                                     /'1

                                                     0
                                                     0
                                                            (),I)

                                                            O,p

                                                            ""'
                                                                    {),(I

                                                                    CJ.o
                                                                    o.o .o.a
                                                                             t!UI
                                                                             "-"'
                                                                                       ,J
                                                                                        I
                                                                                        ,p
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                 D
                                                                                                               0


                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                      0,,:,

                                                                                                                  I loo
                                                                                                                      t).O
                                                                                                                               0. 0
                                                                                                                               0,:)

                                                                                                                               0,.?   0
                                                                                                                                        11.o
                                                                                                                                       /~t:,

                                                                                                                                        O.o
                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                    f
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            /
                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                      i
                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                              /.lJ
                                                                                                                                                                             !.2
                                                                                                                                                                             o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                      tl.O
                                                                                                                                                                                      0. (l
                                                                                                                                                                                      /.o
                                                                                                                                                                                              l.o
                                                                                                                                                                                              f.:J.
                                                                                                                                                                                              /n
        8-UnknoMI                 0       0          0      0.0      tJ.o    O.o       .,2      0              ~ ,,?o.o IP.O l.:fo.a ~:,                    0       1.22 ,U4                  1'14


I
                                                                                                                                                                                      /).O
        9-0ther                   0       0          0      o.,,    ,1.,:,   o.o        I       0                 I   /0.0     0.0 /()O           J         0         ~   J./         /l.(l   ~I

    I       Total                 9       '1 /6 SU d~ I I//Jd                          '1      .3            /0       1t;o ~-" /110. f,:; It 9J' 11/1, /JI) 11,0.


I                                                 //LL      V£,AD$
                                                                           EVALvATl()/11
                                                                             'Ee                       I&'
                                                                                                              ff

                                                                                                              14,1?
                                                                                                                      'JG
                                                                                                                         ALL
                                                                                                                                s
                                                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                                        S'/6,6(Tf///G5
                                                                                                                                                                "t:eD
                                                                                                                                                                      /' 'I .d.R
                                                                                                                                                                                  4,,(77"             r, r. 'O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      19 d.ti
                                       Number                Per Cent                 Number                PerCmt                  Number                Per Cent                Number                                           PerCmt


I            Evaluation
        0-Balloon
         I-Astronomical
                               Certain Doubtful Tolal Certain Doobtfu I Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Douhtfu
                               S;i .r.r /.~7 {.:; 4.2 /,14          .2
                             .241 /lo 1.-1.,1 IP':? 112 _:; l.~..1- 19
                                                                                                   e,
                                                                                                 ,:l
                                                                                                               ..7     a.~     tJ.tJ
                                                                                                             .2.1 !t...J 3.8 !4n3
                                                                                                                                        J.f       3
                                                                                                                                                  II       /(,
                                                                                                                                                                7    JO      ti-./ 9 J- I.U
                                                                                                                                                                     -27 l#'I .2~(,, J,.,- J'J
                                                                                                                                                                                                       /,,2
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,➔
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Total Certain Doobtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       n        J'.-4

                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,, 1.K :l,5'.f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /_#()   I ?z.-?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .5'9J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    fl
        2-Aircratt           /~;z //J- .2.31 9..3 3 . ., 11,, I                                     ~           I l.'I /) /} 19                    t           I         q   ltJ,J    1.4     /~,      If     lo               d.3                  /.1.J


I       3-Lithl Phenom.
        4-Birds
        S-Clouds, Oust, etc.
                              11 /:I, ,2 9 1,3 tP.9 ,<.;J I
                                $
                                I  3
                                    .r /J t!J.I. tl.4 lo p
                                          ¢ O.I tl.~ If)., p                                    0
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                               ,,
                                                                                                               ()
                                                                                                                   I J9
                                                                                                                      {1,p
                                                                                                                      ,!),;?
                                                                                                                               (J,0
                                                                                                                               0.0
                                                                                                                               P.0
                                                                                                                                        1.9 0
                                                                                                                                        tl.P
                                                                                                                                       0.0
                                                                                                                                                   /
                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                            ~
                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                      ., 1.4 1.4
                                                                                                                                                                      .? Id" 1.1 -7.'

                                                                                                                                                                      0      0 tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                              .J.k
                                                                                                                                                                                      /1, (J lo.o      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,9
                                                                                                                                                                                                        '!7   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                               0


                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                tJ /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                tJ_q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 tl.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          o.o ao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,fJ lJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /J.'1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,, /JO
        6-lnsutfic.lnfo.     /?.&" (J l/7J' /{~ L?.O n3 II                                                                     o.o 21./            q                     9111.~                                        u, O.tl
                                                                                                               ,,
                                                                                                 0            I/ ~I. I                                      0                         /JO     12,:i_ ;;}(J     0      J/J                           .l.&,

I       7-Psycholoaical
        &-Unknown
        9-0ther
                              1-'   3
                               ,:;:,:i.
                                         /J' tl.9 o.~ I.I ;)
                                          0
                                .r.1 19 1..2
                                                   23.2 1/7.t.      0.0
                                                            4.o 1.4 -<'.4
                                                                             /1(.
                                                                                      /0
                                                                                        ~
                                                                                                0


                                                                                                ..
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                              ..1


                                                                                                             lo /4,.1
                                                                                                                      ,J.i
                                                                                                                      '1.1
                                                                                                                               ".O
                                                                                                                               ,, 0
                                                                                                                               P.O
                                                                                                                                           .u
                                                                                                                                         11 9
                                                                                                                                        ,4,,. ; l
                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                            0


                                                                                                                                                           .-?        r
                                                                                                                                                                         I   I.¢

                                                                                                                                                                             2,-
                                                                                                                                                                                      "- (J    1.4
                                                                                                                                                                         9 J,;l,;/. (1.0 1/,2.,2 ,;13
                                                                                                                                                                                      4./ Lk
                                                                                                                                                                                                        I

                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                              0


                                                                                                                                                                                                              (J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I &'1 /JL7
                                                                                                                                                                                                              0 l..23 CJ,:j /JO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,f ;,,4- /J, t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,r;4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     qq
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,,.,, I;?~) ,rq_q 4p.J
I           Total              94.J !31,? I.J/J 171.1 :u 3 h,n .J"p                             .:2           S;z. qf.1        u       )/)/),    IL.d :/n            14 .f'1.J 4tJI IM>. /~9                                                        /PO.




I            Evaluation
                                       Number
                                                    /t?,1p
                                                             Per Cent
                               Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tolal
                                                                                             Number
                                                                                                              /,?_,-1
                                                                                                                   Per Cent
                                                                                      ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                                        Number
                                                                                                                                                                     l'/r:i.
                                                                                                                                                                              Per Cent                Number                PerCmt
                                                                                                                                                 ertain Doobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
        0-Balloon                /,n      .J      - /.r t.1 {4               ll'J I     .2      _q            J' i. 7 ~/  C.J 53 ,,1.o 93 -u                                     [4 12.,


I       1-Astronomical
        2•Aircraft
        3-Light Phenom.
                                s/
                                /.f
                                  0
                                          '
                                          //
                                          ,fl
                                                    31 l,20.I

                                                      0     0.IJ
                                                                    4.o i.24.i
                                                    29 J..l.l '1.4 1111..r
                                                                    /),;:J   1/.o
                                                                                        t,
                                                                                        (
                                                                                        I
                                                                                                 J
                                                                                                 d
                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                              14 It Ju.I /,1/i /j(J 4 [ 1(.4 /t,;J.
                                                                                                              I()
                                                                                                               ~
                                                                                                                      .v J:4
                                                                                                                    i i 1¢ 21
                                                                                                                                        /;I.,-       .2'i /tD
                                                                                                                                                  '1 I
                                                                                                                                                  IJ   9 -14- 2 tJ /.2
                                                                                                                                                                                 (, ,/
                                                                                                                                                                             97 12 I
                                                                                                                                                                                       ;      .,,
                                                                                                                                                                                              .,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                              "-~
        4•Birds                   0       0           p      0.i,   tJ.o     ,'J_(J     0       I                 I (1.0 14 14                    .r 3      2 P.7 "4                          I. I

I       5-Clouds, Dus~ et~
        6-lnsuffic.k!a:i.
        7-Psydlo~~cal
                                  ,!)

                               3,;t
                                  0
                                          0
                                          0
                                          0
                                                    0   O.u
                                                   34 l.nJ
                                                      0     ,t),,
                                                                    0. 0
                                                                    IJ.(J
                                                                    P.o 0.0
                                                                             /).0
                                                                             H.f
                                                                                       0
                                                                                       /;l.
                                                                                           I
                                                                                                p
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                              0 P.~ 0. ()
                                                                                                             J.1 Jt..., O.o
                                                                                                              I  I.¢ O.o
                                                                                                                                        /),t,

                                                                                                                                       11.~ g9 0
                                                                                                                                        L4 7 d
                                                                                                                                                       I   '~            4   IJ.I IP.¢
                                                                                                                                                                    29 /:l.1 "· (I l..l./
                                                                                                                                                                     /,:) /.o ,9 ¢ 1.4
                                                                                                                                                                                              .,, -

        II-Unknown              .21 0 i..U /l,2 tl.o I.I.~
                                                                                      ~"                     ~t J'J~ J P.O             !~~ I 1/.,1.,i               1'1, 19. ~ O.b )I/.!,

I
                                                                                                D                                                          0
        9-0ther                  4- .:l   6 J,J 13 ti. 0                               $       0              .3 4./           O.o      4.1      ..2,      Fl       d,.,     3.r J,q IS-4

    I       Total              /,2...., 2# 141 1.H it.I /0().                         .!'1 17 7~ 171.0 23.0 /Oil. ~fl l..1'06 1.J~ 71.f :zi.l (/){),

I                                                                                                                              203

I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                 ALL         ✓_,Alf'S
                                                                            s,-,i!:<="               -,e           /Jl.?Jt.11!1-..-

                                                                                                                     I~ 47
                                                                                                                                                                      r-..,-.o-r/t:)_A ·AA <,/
                                                                                                                                                                                  /4dP                                                        /9A.Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                       Number                          Per Cent  Number                Per Cent                  Number                Per Cent                Number                Pe,Cent
         Evaluation
    0-Balloon
    I-Astronomical
                           Certain Doubtful Total Certaia Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubttal Total [.;ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total

                            11 Ar /IL ,,tp,/, /J./ ,,_., :,
                             ?L ;uf. L,, /p,J '1.o
                                                                                   ''"
                                                                                             I)
                                                                                             0         ,.?
                                                                                                           0         ,tJ ,P,,
                                                                                                                    :J          AA
                                                                                                                                         tJ.(J
                                                                                                                                        1.....
                                                                                                                                                  ()0
                                                                                                                                                 :,,,,,.,,
                                                                                                                                                              .:I.
                                                                                                                                                              4-
                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                   .~ 1Jl 7 f 1 ~,,b
                                                                                                                                                                                   .r 1, H    ~                1/J.6    s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0         I .f. /. dU) .{:t.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             lo 279. 11f               ~-.c.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
    2-Aircraft              ~J /7 IJJ.. 7.1 ,f,t.J /~ ~                                                    0        tJ         R.o       (10 P.D              t)          0        n       111,0 O.D             ,u         I         I       ;;, [Go I.(' JI·"'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                             t:)
    3-Li&hl Phenom.          4- 3     1 /;;, /) q :I.I                                       0         /'J          tJ         P.D       "-       ll.O        /J          0       0        On       0     /J    /J,I     p            0       0 t!?.O O./'J '-1>
    4•Birds                   0          0            ()       t}IJ      0 0      0.0        0         0            0          /),,,     Ot:J     (l,0        t)          0       0        Po        /'J.0      1,/J     0           0       I')   t!?.P tJ.o t)JJ
    5-Clouds. Dust, etc.       I         4           .f       0 . .3      /:2       I.S      t:J       /'J          t:J        f?.o     t),o      17.o        tJ          0       0       o.o        IJ.O       1).1    I)            0       n     O,o       0,0        ().('J
    6-lnsuffic. Info.       ,.1/,.       0          :u. 11..             /) I}      7~       0         t:J          n          tl./J    /) I}     (/,(J       ,2          0        J IL.7           ,!J,(I     k.,)     j             0      :;L    JI I      0,0       //,/
    7-Psycholo&ical
    8-U-wn                  L? "         0
                                            I     .:u, O..? :z.,:;
                                                     /0
                                             6:i. !lo J?o '°-"
                                                                                             0
                                                                                             0
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                       0            0
                                                                                                                     0        ,(J /}

                                                                                                                              #,;?
                                                                                                                                        tl. tJ tl.O
                                                                                                                                        /J t:7 OP
                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                              (!)
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                           o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                          /J/'J
                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.D
                                                                                                                                                                                                     0,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                (J,()   ,;l,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      e,       I    f(;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .2., 1111
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              t9.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,Ct.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I/./      I
    9-Qtt,e,                10           (,, lb ,< q /1
                                                                                   "·'       b         t:J          ()        tP. () l.o ,P.()                 I          I       :i..    f.3 s.~ V''-t.                t)           0        0     ().0      t/.0       A




        Total              2.111 1100 J4.f 170'1 .:19./ l/dd.                                ti        :i.          ..:?      tl.P /pt/.P /tip,               9           3 l.:Z. 7.1':tJ ,t.r:o ;-,,,,                 12            t,     /,f 61,.7 .U.?            ,,.,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                   Number
                                                      /&;'[L?
                                                         Per Cent                Number                PerC01I
                                                                                                                    /9J-/
                                                                                                                                                                        Nunter
                                                                                                                                                                                   /! '.r ;l
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Per Cent                         Number                   Pe,Cmt               I
         Evaluation        Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total
                                /,,                   /,.,    ? ,·,1
                                                                                             ,.,3                    3 :lro 0.0 ,,_r,. 59 4+ /0$ .?o.'I /,D-                                                   ~,.~
                                                                                                                                                             ertain Doubtful Total Certain Ooubttal Total Certain Ooubtfu                    Total Certain Ooobtful Total



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
    0-Balloon                                0                           0.0 l:!S" 3                       0
    1-Astionomieal             S'            0        J- 1'1Q_L1          /JO     I:, 9.~                      I     3 //...7 R.3 :JS.() 7/7 I.<'" J.r '1 I J:.~ J_j ·"
    2~Aircrafl                 /)           0          0       IJ.O       ,,~       0./'J        I             I     .J ,u f.J IC../,, ,,,2.3 I f 15 fU .r.3 n 'ti
    3-Lieht Phnm.              0         0            0        /J 0      /) 0       O.r,     0         0             C}  /J.~ o.o /J.6     4- .?    ? N I. J :J .. <
                                                                                                                     0 /J /) "·,.,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
    4-Birds                    0            0         h       tJ 0       0.0        lJ,I>    t!)       0                            0/l 0      0    0   /J.(I tl.o /J /'J
    ~Cloud~ Dus~ etc           t!)       0            0       () 0        C? 0      0,D      tJ        0             0 0,() I) 0 all        I 4     J- o.4- J.4     Ur
    6-lnsuffic.lnfo.          ..l        0            :; //j 0.0 11,r,                        I        0              I f. a /).0 C7.:li 19 0 /9 L.7 IJ,D C..1
    7-Psycholo1ic.al              I         0          I .r<? o.o .?.9                       ()        0             0 t) 0 tJ. 0 "·"       7 J        .1..r /J.4                  s                            ~'
I
    8-Unkno111
    9-Qtt,e,


        Total
                              ,.2
                              0

                            /(.,
                                         0



                                         I
                                             I
                                                      ~     1/l /J,/J ti. '1
                                                          I tl.o _(q _("q

                                                     17 94.I J~9 /()()
                                                                                             ~
                                                                                             t)


                                                                                            /t)
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                       0


                                                                                                       2
                                                                                                                    .J ~ :r: (),(I


                                                                                                                   I~
                                                                                                                     0 t:J.o (), (I 0.0
                                                                                                                                         r ..r 0 rf Jtl4 1),0 /f/.9
                                                                                                                                                 """
                                                                                                                                           q 4 / j J.2 Jd v.C

                                                                                                                              H~ 1/7 , - llt/1 i t :1./3 IN/ $o.4 l,x)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                    Au YEARS
                                                                           Ei(ALIH9rz(JIV
                                                                           SP!:E05      ~&                         c7,-,
                                                                                                                    /94?
                                                                                                                               -e-r~ ,              t.£_·~            7'"#~"
                                                                                                                                                                                  /94-i
                                                                                                                                                                                       ,.,,,,&'      ,'(/U1"Af'~,n                  ,.,., . ,,:5    /?&,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              19,1..a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  V/7,1/          I
         Evaluation
    0-Balloon
    I-Astronomical
                            47 .27
                            ,;l,:,
                                   Number



                                         II          ~J
                                                          Per Cent
                           Certain DOlrbtful Total Certain Ooomtlul Total Certain Ooomtful Total Cawn Doobtful Total Ceftain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Ooubtfu Total Certain Ooobtlul Total
                                                     '/// ?~4            n ..t 11,,1 I
                                                              t:J.a .!'4 11<.~
                                                                                  Number             PerC01I

                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                             NulU>er


                                                                                                                         I fo.o          0.0 J'fJ.o
                                                                                                                                                   Per Cent


                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                              4-
                                                                                                                                                                           Number


                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                Per Cent

                                                                                                                                                                                       9ILJ.1.1 J:.3 11'7'i/
                                                                                                                                                                                   .-:- !~I.I J'~ IJc, t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /         ..2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .~ [ t II I lt:7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               y tn JI.I (•/.'I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                       Al                     i,f
                                                                                             0             0
                                                                                                                      "        tJ.O      ()_ 0
                                                                                                                               ,!J,(I •11. o
                                                                                                                                                   fl.,,

                                                                                                                                                                                                     f~ lln.,                                :2 ,(JO }/ I  II./
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
    2-Aircrafl               /l                      <(9'                ID-2 11'1.o                                  0                       o.o             /               I    7 f.:/,                                            .7
    3-Liit,tf'llenorl.        0          .3           ~       OIJ / J'              I.J
                                                                                              0
                                                                                              ~
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                       ,i!J          (}        11.o 0.0 /JO                    0              0    () ,l),JJ         ao /)JI             "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0               D     /)   l.o        ,IJ 0    ti.A
    4-Birds
    ~Cloud~ Oost, etc
                               .3
                               /
                                          I
                                             I         ~
                                                          r/ /,.!,' tJ..J'
                                                              /JI P ..(
                                                                                   :, n
                                                                                   i. (}
                                                                                             e,
                                                                                             0
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                        ,IJ
                                                                                                                               "·c;
                                                                                                                               0,/J
                                                                                                                                        "0 () pn
                                                                                                                                           ()
                                                                                                                                              tl.tJ           0
                                                                                                                                                               0          .c,
                                                                                                                                                                              a     0
                                                                                                                                                                                   ()
                                                                                                                                                                                           IJ.o
                                                                                                                                                                                           IJ.tJ "0
                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0        (),/j
                                                                                                                                                                                                                (}/\
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    "·
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    n.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              tl.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0(7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tl./J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /1,,

                                                          c .7.'i ,, .,, 2.9                                                                                                                                                                  I .r. l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
    6-lnsuffic. Info.          (.            0                                               t1J       D             0         Q.o 0.0 O.o                        0           C    0       41,Q IJ.O            /J/l        /         0                       00        L':t:
    7-Psytholo&ical
    8--•
                              ..;l..
                            .J3
                                         0
                                            0
                                                      ~ /.1:J P.o
                                                     ?3 11,I_; 0.P
                                                                                    I.O
                                                                                   IL
                                                                                             0
                                                                                             0
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                     /J
                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                               t),t:J

                                                                                                                               t!J.o
                                                                                                                                         IJ. () 0.tJ
                                                                                                                                         (l,0     ,0,()       "I          0
                                                                                                                                                                              0    /)      t),(J

                                                                                                                                                                                    I J:3 tJ.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                     "·   ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ll.d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,~ "     .J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               "    "1 0       0.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .J 1/.. 7 () (I II,. 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I.(}


    9-0l!ler                   t         .3          II 3.'1             /.j'     r.,         /        C             I W/1.o tJ.o i..o.o                       0         ~        J        ~.()     Jt>.S /0.~              /         C       I '1~ t.        D.O       ,rt:

        Total              I/JS t. 7 .?o.r t13 3.1..? /~.                                   ;1         0            ,? 11-,,            ().b     Lltit1      14          $        I</ 7.J,7 ;lt.3 j(lp                  /7            6 IJ LL? JJ.:/ /tJtJ.                       I
                                       -             /'1.ro
                                                      PerCenl                 Number                Per Cenl
                                                                                                                    /<9..o
                                                                                                                           Nu-                   Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                  /9.r~
                                                                                                                                                                                               PerCent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -                                             I
         Evaluation
    0-Ballooo                                                                     ,,.•
                           Cawn Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Geftain Doubtful Total Certain Ooomttal Total ~rtain Ooomtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Ooobllul Total Ce,tail Ooubtlal Tolal
                              <I                I     ,< :l/. I f.3                              /     n             / l.:IJ'.()                  '1ro       .S:2 -'-3            c< '1'1.4 It.I l?e,.l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                        A.I)
    1-Asln,nomical             /             0            I .r.J ti.II             ,.('3     ()            I        /         ,,.,,,    ;lf.d ::,,•o          q            ?      /C. ,U 1.9 111 ..,
    2-Airaafl                 .r            0         ,< l:lt.3 ,,,,, ~/11                       I     0             /        1.1'..r.o P.O :V:o             II           /,f     ~q '11 nl. 11Ai
    3-Liij,t Phen011.                                 I)       P.o                                                   (I                  ~,., ., d.o                      $        ~ ,.o ~-I 2./
                                                                          tJ.o     ti /'J                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                          - -<'I~.~
                               0            0                                                D         0                       ,9.()

    4-Birds                                           0                                      p         0             0         P.o .n- IA.o                    3          I        C/ 2,/ /]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                               0             C                 ff.,j      ,1./l    O.fl
    Hlouds,Oost,el<'.          0         0            II       /?A        o.11 a.lJ          0         0             ()        Q.(J     d.fl ,1/,(I            I          I        ~ tJ.1 tJ."7
                                                                                                                                                                           .,
                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                          ,, ::,~ A.I
    6-lnsuffic. ■lb.           I        0                     ✓.J         ,,_() .[•          p         0             ()       17,0      Q.o P.o               4                         A,fi         /},,,

    7-Psydrolo&ical            0         0            0 o.d               tNJ t?./J          0         0            tJ 10.0             o.o o.o .l.                               /¢ 00 /. t/
    8--
9-0tl,e,                      /'        0
                                        0             '
                                                      /
                                                             31.l ;, t) ~/.{.
                                                             J~ 3 /I /) r•
                                                                                             /
                                                                                             0
                                                                                                       Q

                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                    I ':lro
                                                                                                                     I}       LJ.t)
                                                                                                                                         4.o 1~5'.o ,2~
                                                                                                                                        /J. () 0.0   J-                   "' 17~C: lr4-
                                                                                                                                                                          /
                                                                                                                                                                                        11.0 J.C,
                                                                                                                                                                                   JJ" 0. 7 t/.::t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
       Total                JS           I          /4       141.7 r.3             Im       .J         I            t1 '1r.o :u:(I /M 39 J- 4 14.3 ,,u JU I/JI


                                                                                                                                        204
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
I
I
I                       till/LI[



                                   Number
                                                A /55'

                                                ALI-
                                                           Per Cent
                                                                     YeAH.!I
                                                                                 EvAL (h97?0/I/
                                                                                  <oeeo


                                                                                                           Number
                                                                                                                  ,?,C
                                                                                                                                   ac
                                                                                                                                    /)AJ=J1T$

                                                                                                                                    /'id 7
                                                                                                                                 Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                       (IA//r


                                                                                                                                                         Number
                                                                                                                                                                /
                                                                                                                                                                     tl/1/£

                                                                                                                                                                               Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                           -
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                               /9¢~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ~,, ,.,,,,,,,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Percent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,J    .,,,,,,,,€,,, ,t,?/L.€<;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /9¢9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ....e.""\2""".f!'"'r-._.e:__,..12'-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ;e;..,&.,,L,,_s,,__4..._,_r:_ _,,,..e.'-"c:
                                                                                                                                                                         $£.Jt!a.2.lla....<u--'"'-"Al"',..,_,,s,__-",5."'61.""if-t9a..,.L.,_L_..z0..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0&4.             HOt/,?



         Evaluation        Certain Doubtfl.11 Total Certain Doubtful Total                          ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tolal certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tot~


I   0.S.lloon
    1-Astmnomical
    2-Aircratt
                             ..u
                             /6
                            1,4
                                          /?
                                          .n
                                               ,f ~9'                 i.o 3.o
                                                           ·n (,, I ,.4 lh,.("
                                                           9/ Jlf,2 /o.:i. ,v.<
                                                                                           /7/



                                                                                                "
                                                                                                      .J

                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                     ()
                                                                                                                        0               {! lf.8 /IP /~i
                                                                                                                                        () PO ,P.p ,,,,
                                                                                                                                         I L:2 P.t'J L.:l
                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                     _/
                                                                                                                                                                                    ,t          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,1          $"
                                                                                                                                                                                                               4 1✓,o ro -20,0 ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                               f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,J.O ..?oo ,2J." t) ..1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ~t).0    :,:o .:u:.i:            4,.        A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ~ £Jo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            i.? '2. 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    c. 11.4 !.? ,r..1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LJ "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    e?


    3-Light Phenom.          ,t.               I           5          /J       ntl.        /.~        I                                  I L;i                      L.               I                             I      r,,     0.0 .r.o                 /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   " LJO no ~.()

I
                                                                                                   0                                                       ()n                                 ,()                                                                    L)

                                                                                            ,H ,,,
    4·Birds
    S-Clouds,Oust, etc.
                              ()               I           I
                                                            ,(
                                                                     /Jo       o.4
                                                                               Pl
                                                                                                                    0                   ()

                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                  /J,,     O(J

                                                                                                                                                 0. ti 0.0 ,o
                                                                                                                                                                    LI,()           i!)            I               I     I) 0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /o      J~ 0           /J          0           tJ I) () 00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   d (). I) o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ""
    6-lnsuffic:.tnro.
                              LJ
                            ),,j'          0
                                            J
                                                       :?.J
                                                                      00
                                                                   4..f P.O 9.J
                                                                                           (),Q       ,:)
                                                                                                      /
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                    0                   I        ,.2 (J.tJ L..:;
                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                   ..z
                                                                                                                                                                                                t:)

                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                               I)

                                                                                                                                                                                                               2 lln.o oo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0,0      tJ,o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /tJ.o          p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           t!J        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0           ,I Ja.i ()O 1-:r~K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     "·"

I                                          ..7                  fl J.3 /9.8 '2.. I                                   I                           f J L.2 a'J                                                                                              0                                tJ.o t),O
    7-Psyctolo1ical           I'                                                                      I                                 :J                                                                     (I        0.0       0,0     0,0                       0            ()                                t),/)
    &-Unknown               ,;i.           0           I,:; ,<$. .! (l.tJ 1.,," (                     ?
                                                                                                                    "                   7 ~-8
                                                                                                                                        I L :1
                                                                                                                                                           0.0      1/?8            " " a.:l.
                                                                                                                                                                                   -2          0                         /0,0      o.o I I() o           .r 0                     .s :J./, 7 (),0 ~/7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   a       o.o O.o ,tl,,J
    9.Qthe,                       7         J               rj        :J,7 t).~            :I,, I         /         C,                                     (),0      /             /'J        0                           t),IJ   i!Jtl 4,o               ()         0




I       Total              l.?t1S         ,r-q .:lt4 "11.7 ;;,3 l/-v1                               /[               I             I/..          93,8 L..1          .IAA          Jj            7          ;?o llr.o 3f.o 1,,,,,                        /9            4- ,1,2, 3-1.t 11.4 / ~



I        Evaluation
    ~Balloon
                                          Number
                                                           /9J-O
                                                          Per Cent                Number                Per Cent


                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                    /9.J'l
                                                                                                                                Number                Per Cent                Number
                            Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu
                                      I            I            "do 4o lo                            ,2.                                 _-:; Lr'A         ti.a 1r<1               /CJ             ?
                                                                                                                                                                                                               l?.r;i


                                                                                                                                                                                                               /,<;'    /.i 9.2.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ·1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Total Certain Doubtful Total


                                                                                                                                                                                                               .,, u,, /..o
I   I-Astronomical
    2-Airtratt
    J.Liat,t Pha,om.
    4-Birds
                                  6
                                  0
                                   J


                                  t')
                                            3
                                            0
                                            0
                                            0
                                                            3


                                                            I)
                                                                 4.o /,:l.o do
                                                                C ~4., /0.0 M.o
                                                            o /Jc o.n o.o
                                                                               t).O        (),O
                                                                                                      4
                                                                                                      ,,
                                                                                                     ,Q
                                                                                                          I


                                                                                                                         "
                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                            )
                                                                                                                                         - '1. 7 7.7 IL<¢ II
                                                                                                                                        .5 3oV 7, 7 I~.. ~ A,
                                                                                                                                        ~ (}.o

                                                                                                                                        l'J
                                                                                                                                               c.c /J /J ~
                                                                                                                                                 ,,,,
                                                                                                                                               Oo tJ /, ()
                                                                                                                                                                                               /()
                                                                                                                                                                                              >-3 (, JI 1.26.9 13.f lv-1.1

                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                )    , /2 tJ.~ (. 8
                                                                                                                                                                                                    cJ -o.o tJ. (I 4~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            11..?.,


                                                                      /1,0                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                     ,.,,,                                         ...
I   5-Ctouds, Oust. etc.
    6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
    7-Psychological
                              .r
                                  ,!J


                                  I        0
                                            0
                                            0
                                                           tJ t),D 0.0 0,0
                                                           ,> ~"-0 (),O 120.0
                                                            I         4.o       tlLJ       4.o       0
                                                                                                      p
                                                                                                          ()


                                                                                                                     "
                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        0 4,0     A


                                                                                                                                        0 nn O.o ciA 9
                                                                                                                                        (7        ,,   -
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                           ,i




                                                                                                                                                           /J, 0     C},i,         4-
                                                                                                                                                                                              .2
                                                                                                                                                                                               ()

                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                         00 /,.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                    7 .f'.4 o.o n
                                                                                                                                                                                                             < :J.4 0 L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       J,,;,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ....9.t.
    8-Unkno'MI                6            0                ~ l,d,o            IJ,O       fZl.l,P    _,?            0               '3 :?$./ tJ.o ~J1(/ )<lJ                                   0           .~9 23.4 0, 0                           ~




I   9-0lher


        Total
                              0



                            ,,;
                                            I


                                  " .,:' .t.J'
                                                            /        ~{)       Jo do

                                                                     :kt;" ~(),P /pl),              II
                                                                                                          I         0                   I         1.1      0.0       7

                                                                                                                    ,z /3 l.fd.l J.(4 /Ill 1111 ?tl 1(1 1'1l.o .l.f.o ,,.,,
                                                                                                                                                                                   .r         0                    ..s ,!,{) 0.0             ~n




I                          1/ldLE              /llS6

                                                   ALL YEAR!'
                                                                           EV,(LllliT@AI
                                                                           t'"EEII<                        ~"'"
                                                                                                                   PF              tl&tr
                                                                                                                                 ,,,A


                                                                                                                                        /''47
                                                                                                                                                =/J-r.$
                                                                                                                                                           'Lf~t,lrt/1/(;, s
                                                                                                                                                                   t1//es11,                     """"~
                                                                                                                                                                                                               /9d1'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /rrn/1.d&p                  ,.,,,,t..£S            LJPo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 lt/49
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,,.,,,,,,,,
                                    Number                Percent                 Number                PerCmt                  Nunler                Per Cent                Number                                                                                                         PerCmt


I        Evaluation
    0-Balloon
    I-Astronomical
                            Certain Do•btful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu
                            ,,;,,., ,,Jo
                             .RJ. l/      I? I ltJ.fJ :!I~'
                                                       I
                                                           YtJ
                                                                '
                                                                      .n 3.3 L.t.                         I
                                                                                                          (,             4
                                                                                                                            {)              I    ..<,q tJ 0 .? 9
                                                                                                                                    lo /7,(,, Jl.i
                                                                                                                                                                    "~"'
                                                                                                                                                                     .o .1
                                                                                                                                                                                    4
                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                   C
                                                                                                                                                                                                       I           ;; _7C,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   :J   q J;"Jt'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          J/,f 17, (. _:J~IJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I   ,JJ,O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ..lJ 2:! 1.S )/~JI. 'ff.,:,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      r II //,.(' 9., ~/_/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         l,'1        I, 'I




I
    2·Aircraft
    3-Liaht Phenom.
    4-Birds
                             x''J RI 1,; 114.3 13, <J?.~
                               ? d
                              .J ,2
                                      10 I.I tl,J- 1.,
                                      .5 or tJ.3 A,~
                                                                                                      p
                                                                                                      p
                                                                                                      ~
                                                                                                                        ~
                                                                                                                        <:)

                                                                                                                        l'J             0
                                                                                                                                         ~
                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                  IJ ti
                                                                                                                                                  0,/J

                                                                                                                                                  0.t:J
                                                                                                                                                           .r.'1
                                                                                                                                                           0.0
                                                                                                                                                           (),0
                                                                                                                                                                     "·"
                                                                                                                                                                     ,M
                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                      J
                                                                                                                                                                                                A,
                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                    I               ~ ti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    _-:i1,; .['/ J .~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    :; 1.'1 :1 'i s. J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,, Oo 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   :l.'i // ,7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ()        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0       ,.,,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I d.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1,q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A/I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,, ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                      "
    5-Clouds, Oust. etc.       (!) 0   0 t?.t1 P.o ,:7,/1                                             {)             ;,:)               0          t/,O    O.o       ().4                       n                                            (),{)         0             ()         /,      t!Jo        {) d
    6-lnsuffic.lnfo.        ,If 0                          flf? 7. t;                       '79       ..l.              0               :;        ~'.9               .C9             d,.        C                   It Ill' t:J.o 1/5/                     ~          ,0           .5 9. t-                          ~c,
                                                                               (),O
                                                                                                                                                           "·" 2.9                                                 ,., tJ.o o.o (),()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (),()




I   l•Psycholo1ical
    8-Unkno'Mt
    9-0lher
                             7 3
                           l[.J
                            .tlt
                                            0
                                            4
                                                           /(}
                                                       /f:'I :lD ().ti ~~/ /?
                                                           ~()
                                                                )/             (!),,,{'



                                                                      43 0. 1 f,()
                                                                                             J.C.     p


                                                                                                      .r
                                                                                                                     ,0
                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                        J
                                                                                                                                   /'.]
                                                                                                                                            I     o.o ..i q
                                                                                                                                                 3U
                                                                                                                                        s 1¢.7 /) 0 hi:?
                                                                                                                                                           ,!?.() l"'I".;;
                                                                                                                                                                                     ,a
                                                                                                                                                                                     "'}

                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                               ()

                                                                                                                                                                                                I              .:I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7 ;2tJ,{,      O,t:J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2.q 2.q ,S'.'~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '.:I(),,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I          "0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ()

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   r:; 11.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    / /,9

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Jq
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (),(7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IV~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /JI

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      l 'I



I       Total              il:T~J         114 lf.o9 'IN ,;li,/,, /(Jt) ..2"1                                         '1 JC/ l74d :ltJ.& 100 .22 l:Z 34 t.h JJ~_? /.:>A .24                                                                                          ;U ,$",), 41..2. .J'H' /0(}



I        Evaluation
    !).Balloon
                                    Number
                                                           /'91-0
                                                          Per Cent                Number                Per Cent
                                                                                                                                    /Yr1
                                                                                                                                Number                Per Cent                Number                Percent
                                                                                                                                                                                                               /?.r:l

                            Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total ~ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                            .'31-t. 9 .l'J.P 1. 9                             I                             I 3.4                    .1 y 14 If                                ·.u .f.3 4-.3 7.,
                                  .3            0                                                                           0                              ,I)()



I   I-Astronomical
    2-Aircraft
    Hiat,t Phenom.
                              ,2
                                  7
                                  (?
                                               4
                                               4
                                                0           I
                                                                ,0 /0,J' I.U
                                                                '
                                                           I/ 111.4 I••• I~ .'I
                                                                      ,!).t)   Oo           4,,,
                                                                                                     /0




                                                                                                      ,,.,
                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                    ·o
                                                                                                                        .2
                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                    /0 lur
                                                                                                                                         ,11.u Lq :J() 'i 6/
                                                                                                                                         I td
                                                                                                                                                           ,Of)



                                                                                                                                                           ,tJ.O
                                                                                                                                                                     1U (




                                                                                                                                                                     tH
                                                                                                                                                                                   (.o


                                                                                                                                                                                    ✓
                                                                                                                                                                                    ,:;
                                                                                                                                                                                              ,l(
                                                                                                                                                                                              L, J'3'1 1.r.9 J[t; 11/ .l<
                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                               ('//      Id).


                                                                                                                                                                                                                    G, /, J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ::, .,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,. I 1-,,,, ~

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /J. 2      /, t/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,1':
    4·8irds                       /1        0                   0      0,.,    /1,()        d,/J                         0               (I       I) 0     Otl       /J,/1                         ()                              l).O



I   >Clouds, Dust. etc.
    6-lnsuffic.klfo.
    7-Psyctolo~cal
                                  0
                                  3
                                  0
                                            0
                                               0



                                            " l»q
                                                                I)
                                                             -; 7,q
                                                            tJ Oo
                                                                      ~.o       (),O
                                                                                P.o 7,9
                                                                                O,o 0./J
                                                                                            4,tJ




                                                                                          ....
                                                                                                          ,.,
                                                                                                          ,,
                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                     ,0


                                                                                                                        "I
                                                                                                                                         0 IJ.tJ
                                                                                                                                         0 ,P,(J (),O ti.I. ,4
                                                                                                                                         I tJ.o Jd, :u
                                                                                                                                         7IM./ ,, .,Y., ✓o,
                                                                                                                                                           O.o       t),/J            0



                                                                                                                                                                                      " " ,~
                                                                                                                                                                                                p
                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    () IJ.0 ti ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                               3</ §,/ /} ti g_J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ? J.4 d,:J. /, (,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ~,: I n,,., :,r I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /J,/1




                                            " JI!I
    I-Unknown                 //                                                t),p   ,;                 7             0                                       ~                                          1,.,,


I   9-0the,


        Total
                              ,,2


                             ?R
                                           ~


                                           IO .1? 'fJ.? ~t.3 /4/J
                                                                      .i".~ .I~ :z l(J L.             ,$                0                ~ IM,j /J.o ,,, ~ 14-


                                                                                                    ,,u _,? ..Z9 119. 1 IIJ.3 )()/) 308 /14 4;,, 113.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                   I                     J.~ /J,:t .H

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ~?.O 1,.-.A,




I                                                                                                                                                          205

I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                    ~                       llt51

                                        Au YE-'IHS
                                                                SPEe,o.r                 CJP                  ,.,,,
                                                                                                               /<14?
                                                                                                                         -"~.S
                                                                                                                                             VGltO!l!GS                  rCJ,f
                                                                                                                                                         A.A=r,-- _,,.,,,:::, -

                                                                                                                                                                          /9d2
                                                                                                                                                                                           ALL
                                                                                                                                                                                    L_/ ,1,,, -
                                                                                                                                                                                                            VE/4i!S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                SPee,o.s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /~'✓<!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                  Number                        Per Cent                     Number                Per Cent                Number                Per Cent                Number                Per Cent
     Evaluation
0-Balloon
                       Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total

                          ~         ,<         2
                        4f .1 I 7q 39.~ 12.r.d. (II,?
                                                        OD         /.L I./..
                                                                                      ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tot~
                                                                                        ,(7            0         0       &.o        tJ.o 0.0           ;,:I
                                                                                                                                                        I.
                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                   t.
                                                                                                                                                                           0          o.o         "1    A


                                                                                                                                                                                    d..1.'J 14-;l.'I ,u:q
                                                                                                                                                                                                            t'J.o      ,P          ,(:}     ,,;; '1J.0 0.0        0.tJ    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '
 l-Ast10nomical                                                                                                  I       ;,,,,,              /p,,.o                       I~                                                                   ~          ,-.o
2-AircraH                t :2 /! 4.9 IL L.I;                                            tJ
                                                                                           /
                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                 ~       00
                                                                                                                                   (J.P

                                                                                                                                   t'J. (J   ().D       0       0           ,:;     L) 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                  "'·"                 " 0                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,9,0 0,0       '""·"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  o.o

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                            &I)

3-Light Phenom.           0          0         0        tJ.o
                                                                  "·" I     111.0       0              0        0        0,0        0,0 0.0            ()      0            (l       IJ.o         i/J.O     ,1,/)     "0 .,,,              ,?      ao     tJ,n    Oo
4·Birds                   0            ,           I    /J.LJ ,,, 0             (I      ,n         0            0        CJ.I)     tJ.o O.o            ,I)      ()          (l      A t'J         Ll.O       A,1       I}      0           11  P.o O.o 0.0
5-Clouds. Oust, etc.         I     0           I t?..I             OL>       /H        C)      b                 0       L),(>     (J.(J     00        0        0           I)      lfl.n         /} 0       ()./)    11       0           cJ t?. 0 00 0. e,
6-lnsuffic.lnfo.          9        0           q -1.d             0. 0       1.(        0      0                 0       o.o       0.IJ      O,o       ()      0            CJ      0.0           D.O       A,/J       ()      0           cJ (J.O ao Q.n
7-Psydl:l1ogic-al
8-UnknoMI
9-0ther
                        /R
                          ,!l


                         .3
                                   0
                                   0
                                    )          I p,c
                                              I I 14.i
                                              3 ,,?.J- t'J.O
                                                                  (J.8  ,Ul
                                                                   D.o J(q
                                                                            2,(
                                                                                       0
                                                                                       /)

                                                                                       0
                                                                                               0
                                                                                                   C
                                                                                                   0           n
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                L7
                                                                                                                         b,0
                                                                                                                         0.0
                                                                                                                         l!J.D
                                                                                                                                   b.O
                                                                                                                                   0.0 ·o.o
                                                                                                                                  ().0
                                                                                                                                             o.o


                                                                                                                                             (),()
                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                       .2
                                                                                                                                                       ,1)
                                                                                                                                                              ()
                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                            tJ 11.o
                                                                                                                                                                           .:l
                                                                                                                                                                            CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                  tl.P
                                                                                                                                                                                    14.~ 19.0 119'.'~
                                                                                                                                                                                     ti.()        t/.()
                                                                                                                                                                                                            /J,CJ


                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,?.ti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0      ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   t)O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   o.c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   tJ,O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IJ,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          tJ,tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          cJ.a 00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  O,o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ().()   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      "
    Total               R[        31 /~,Z t.'J.1 .Jo.ii. ,,,,,,                         I          0             I      /ot!d      P.o       too.      s 6               /4 ..-11 42.'f VtM,                          p        I,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '        tJ,O ,,,,,.o IOI>.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
I Evalualion                      Number
                                              /t?Io
                                                                 Per Cent     Number                PerC01t
                                                                                                                /~J-/

                       Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certaiil Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tot~
                                                                                                                                                             Nunter
                                                                                                                                                                           /9 .r.2
                                                                                                                                                                                   Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                                                                      ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doultfu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
0-Balloon                 t)
                             ,, ..r    0       t) ~I') /J.o In o                                                  ,1     ,.tJ tl.O                      ~           ,<         .::l ().O          :1.1.. Jc.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                        (J                                                   t/.0
 I-Astronomical                               If tt/.J ~.r.1 I/Pt1.D                    ,:J        J   "            6    1•,J      .U.~ .rr.J .fo                  //     YI 38.1 /4./ ('.:Ji
2•Aircratt                 {)        I')       tJ       0.tJ ().0           o.O        e,              0         tJ      P.O       /).I)     0,0        6          ..t         fl    '1.1 :7.L :,(? ·"
3·Light Phenom.              ()     ()             tJ   t)(}  l).tJ 1).0                           0             tJ tl/J           (l.()     00         0          .()      ()       t},O         0,0        ,1.(?
                                                                                       "                                                                                    I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
4-Buds                    0         0          t)       /J.CJ l).t7 Cltl                0          0             CJ o.o            0.0       O.n       0           I            /J.O /.J                      /.~
5-Clouds, Oust. etc.      ,:;;      tl         I)       ti.ti IJ.tl &.P                 ()         ()             t1     (JO       110       o.c        )       0           ) /.!, 0.0                       1.3
&-lnsuffic.lnfo.          (J
                                    "'         /'J      /).0 tl.O           /),()       )          0             /       JI.I ,, I)          //,/       i      (;)          i' Jo.I!, P.O                   /;,,:",

7-Psychological           0        0           ;?       /.J.O /J.CJ         o.o         ()     0                 11 P.o {) () o.o       0                       I         I A n 1.3    13
                                               .., tl.o 0 () 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
8-Unknown                0          0                                                  ;l.     0                 ~ 2~,2 IJ.o I'.:>;,., Id                      0         /¥ /t9 P.o , ,. '1
                                                                                                                                                                                                             .u
9-0ther                   0         0
                                               -   ~- ~o ().0               tl.o        I      0                  I Ill. I         IJC I///            :,      0               ., :7./..          {},0


    Total                 tJ       J-         I 4- t4-.i 5,.-, h,,,                    6           .3          CJ tt.1 !3.3 '111t1                    6/       17 71 1'71'7 .2/8 /ob
                                              IU5K

                                            ALL YEAffS
                                                                           .EM?//AP@I
                                                                       .SPEG:,:Js                      '°"F
                                                                                                              t:lF

                                                                                                                /9¢7
                                                                                                                            I/Alf1'
                                                                                                                        ,.,,.J,:,-,rs
                                                                                                                                             .         <""E6/!J
                                                                                                                                                                          /q 4-P
                                                                                                                                                                                    A,nr                    <rA ~E_,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /9{19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                  Nu.nber                       Per Cent                       Number                             PerCmt                      Number                         Per Cent                         Number                   PerCmt
     Evaluation                    TOta1 Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu
                       Certain Doubtful                                                                                                                                                                                                   Total Certain Doubtful Total
0-Balloon                (,9 49 II fl L.S 4.9 117 ,,,?                      tJ     ,,l ,1, l!P.O ¥'S                    3       ,j- 3,7                ..z
                                                                                                                                                C. q-, 7 0                                        .r:                                       7 .r9 ll. o J.17
 I-Astronomical         17q II?- !,29 I 1171 Ill 1117.~ l:J                ;:z Jt1 :JI',/. J.R ?~ {I 7 /2 /~ /.!.() 2,.A l?U .:v 44                                                                                                       tJ· 1111. 3?.o Sll.6
                                   n
                                  179 9. I 36 /1.1                                 I .l.4 P.O 2,S' 7                            .9 JJ.o J.'l ll'/.9 '7                                                                         .,_         '1 J:4 1.7 7.6J

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
2•Aircraft               9:1                                        I       t)                                           I
•3·llght Phenom.         17 II :Ji /1 I. I .2.f! I                        0       I ;l.<1 IJ.O :J.1/ 0                    I      I /).() /9 /9 ,?                      0                                                                   0       P.o    t) 0     AA

                           7 J' 1.2 tJ. 1 tJ.f I.~ tJ CJ 0 P.O 00 0.0 I                                                         :l /.9 14 :tli' ;i.. 0
4-Birds
S·Clouds, Dus~ etc.        ()        0             tJ ,, ti
                                I'll 1I,U tl.O /Y.t:
                                                                   0.()     P.o
                                                                                      'I
                                                                                        0              0         0
                                                                                                                     "·" /J () l:7/¥ q
                                                                                                                q l..11.d
                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                   tl.O      O.o       t)           0      0         ,,   -
                                                                                                                                                                           q //..7 IJ." 1/G.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                   O.o       A/\      ()       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ;l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,:)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.1 ,.o 1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              tl.O tl.O t1.d
                       /47                                                                                                                                                                                                                /7 14.~ O.o /\('I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
&-lnsuffic.lnfo.                     0                                                                 I)                                                          0                                                  /']       ~

7-PsycOOlogical          );2 :l ;,J /.~ tJ. ;2 I'/                                     ;l.             0        ,,2 4.i t? t) t/.t   I                             0       I        /.'9 o.o I. 9                         I       0        I       ,P,f   o.o      JJ(/
!-Unknown
9-0ther
                        11,9 0 Jc. 9 llt.7 /J.() /4 1
                         3g 14 .n .u 1¢ 5'.2
                                                                                       4.
                                                                                       9           0
                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                 ,,
                                                                                                                4 11.J' "0 I/.~ J..
                                                                                                                        ;l./1      p,t)      JI.¥      ~        ~  " .r 3.1
                                                                                                                                                                           4        1.4 0(} 'J,t/ 1¢-
                                                                                                                                                                                                  .1- /_    .... ~    d.          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0      /4 1//.f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           a. ~.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          {},O 11.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          t!JO 3-"I


    Total              17.30 .Jit'J 1/t:>/" 1-l.3 ;l 1.1 JM ldo                                    .z.        4) W.o               4.R lt>t'- 33 ~/ .J4 {,,/I 35.9 )od '13 46 I/ti !t/.3 33.1 1/P~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
     Evaluation
                               Number
                                              /9,1,:7
                                                     PerCml
                       Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                             Number
                                                                                                                /9.r/
                                                                                                                   Per Cent                Number                Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                          /9.r~
                                                                                                                                                                                         Number                Per Cent
                                                                                      ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total ~•rtai• Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tot~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
0.Balloon                 t             J     /(        u 3I                 11.t ..2                  .3        ..-
                                                                                                                  2.9 4.3 1.J ¢!                               4c         9(/        1.1.         (.,4 11'1.~
'I-Astronomical
2-A,mafl
3-Light Phenom.
                        -14
                        /2
                         0          0
                                        t
                                       .,     30 l.2.r.o ,( .~
                                              ;q 112.J" 1~
                                               0        1),/J     t),.,
                                                                        "'·"
                                                                            !ii' 1 /..
                                                                            /'I.J       t
                                                                                        I
                                                                                                       "g
                                                                                                       4
                                                                                                       /
                                                                                                               Id Ki, J/4 l-'O./J ;,,,9
                                                                                                               /0 f l  .r.? 1'1.1 ..r'i
                                                                                                                2 I 4- J.1. .;<;, l.r
                                                                                                                                                               d,,

                                                                                                                                                                n
                                                                                                                                                                    q
                                                                                                                                                                         /119 /'1,:>, 1..4 l.7:tJ
                                                                                                                                                                         J'3.j        'l4 //./,, .2/IJ
                                                                                                                                                                          2'1 1.4 1.4 vi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                I /J.O Id I.II 4                                 .J                                           II

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
4-Birds                  0         0           (l       t9.o       0.CJ O.o             (1             I                                                                       ,; o.(.            0.J-
5-Clouds, Oust, etc.      0         0         0         o.o        0.CJ     o.o         (1         (J           CJ          tl.O 4,b
                                                                                                                         /J ()                         (}          C           I)   /J,(J         0.0        JJ./J
S-lnsuffic. kilo.        /J-       0          / [ /J~i!           0.0       /.<Ct:.   12           0          /~        111 t!l.o ,?/                 i.r       0        o< /JI P.n ,., /
7-Psydlllogicat          C         0           0        t1 (}     0,()        P.O       I              0         I       /4 0.0 1.<I                   7        ..::l        9 II tU J.f
                                                                            / 7. '1 °'-2                                                                        ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                        I?                   17 117                                                                     314                  ;.?/.ii lo.f                /t9~ 17.A ll.O I?~
&-Ullknown
~Other                   .J
                                    "'I       a         .~ I /.n
                                                                  {},"'
                                                                            £,t I      .3
                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                              ...2.2

                                                                                                                .J 4 3
                                                                                                                                  tl 0
                                                                                                                                   CJ. 0         ,n / 7 10                -:J.7 ;n /. (, f."

    Tolal              1'! /1 c/6 IJ:1.3 /1.1 /110. .f3 17 70 1.r:1 :24.J /,P(J 4.r2 111 lt,:i.9 1'11.9 :IS.I MA


                                                                                                                                  206
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
I
I
I                          Wt.E


                                           Number
                                                      It IS:P
                                                     ALL V£,+R.~
                                                             Per Cent
                                                                             EVAt.U/ITl(J,V
                                                                              SPEE..,,


                                                                                      Number
                                                                                                           -&



                                                                                                            Per Cent
                                                                                                                        t2£          Mlti~f S/lf,ltrt/1/6.S
                                                                                                                           ,.,~ c"-r_<
                                                                                                                         1t:; d 7
                                                                                                                                                          ;


                                                                                                                                                                             Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                   c/7£ &I-'- r,(GA,f.r
                                                                                                                                                                                              sr,,.-1··
                                                                                                                                                                                                   /.?4.P
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ~Av




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Number                Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /,fiAA




I
            Evaluation         Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total !Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total                                           ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,. ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                              I -7;1,;1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -"
                                                                                                                                                                         2                                                 //l,, 1.... d          I                                          ~.o       C. ~
    0-Bal1oon                   /.3 19 ;,.,~ l..te,.9 /.J'I l~·u                                t!7           n
                                                                                                                         "'          A.II      (l.b       IUJ                          /           ~                                                                        I

                                                                                                ,.,                                                                                                                        ,.,, l:lAO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                --,,::,, (,. ~-"'
    I-Astronomical              _$?                     53      1.11         f.L 111.~                     ::J           ~                                -·,            2
                                                                                                                                                                                                    "         1...,.A                                             ?     ~       J/.' Jf.P
                                                                   ",,
                                           ),d                                                                                      ,IJ.(1 IIAA.(1                                     0
    2-Aircratt                  .,, 1      ,~ .?.f '/.I.                          JI.,                                   ,,          (fl.II e,.(1         ti.II          (J           0            t:? II.A       ,I/I     b,A                        I           I     _j                           /.7,,..
                                                                                                ,,,
                                                                                                i!J        0
                                                                                                                                                                         ,,.,                      ,, ti.I) ,.,,,                                 .,,         ,.,                ,,,
I                                 4          ......              b                                                                                                                                                                                                                          "'°
    3-Ligt\tPhenom.                                      ~                   ,!)_ '1   J.~                 0             (?          P.tl      ti.I?      P.11                         0                                              IA.A                              0                             t?.O
    4-Birds                                                     tl.o                                                     ,,,                                  ..         ,,.,                                    A/l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            _,, ,,_,.,                        0         ,,,      11.0       ,.o       t?.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -"
                                                         0                  11.t?      t?.O     LJ         ,')                      PA          ().II                                  0
                                       A


                                            a
                                             0
                                                                                        u.                               ,,.,                                                                                                                     "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -~ 1..,.,,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,u:
                                                                                                                         ,, "·" '·"
                                                                            /. ~                                                                          ,.o
                                                                                                ,,a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A.A                                                                                  (7.p
    S-Clouds, Oust. etc.
    6-lnsuffit.lnlo.
                                   I
                                ,,2¢-        d
                                                         J'
                                                        :l.4 7.4
                                                                P.,?
                                                                             tl.O      '1. ~               ,-2
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                 II ,., IAII
                                                                                                                                    ().()       " 0
                                                                                                                                               ..t
                                                                                                                                                                                       0           LJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                  ..2          ..,,,, ,?./J                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  _7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ti.II
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 l~I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            "·"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,1_,1 /?,;



I   7-Psycholo~cal
    !-Unknown
                                  I
                               l.c"J        0
                                             I           q ../.L
                                                        .[J l1?J' t1o
                                                                             (1.3
                                                                                       ~-" ,.,
                                                                                       17(      /J
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                              (:7
                                                                                                                         n t'J.d tl.o ,.,,
                                                                                                                         0 IA ti 1111
                                                                                                                                         ,.,,, 0 C0
                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,,,          t)/J

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 "'·"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AA


                                                                                                                                                                                                                           P.~ ,7.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IT.A        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .:2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0          _7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I   L J.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1;.J'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (1).fJ    /. . .1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            t?.O II":.<'
    9-DIII•                     /0          ..r IS" -'I.~ / '1 r.11 0                                      0             (J        I 1'./J      (),IJ         /)JI        I             I         "..2          /.,.,     11,0 1~,.,.i:i          a           0         0        A.()       0.()      o.o

                               ~/9 i3 !o;. 1.,l.t .,t'/..( ,,.,,,
I   i Total                                                                                     0          ,,z.          :l IA.'1              JAJ.d      /AA            !             ,z         lo l9ti.D               ?,7.11 ll(lt7.         /~           4 16 11"~"' ;2J:(l ./4,J



I            Evaluation
        0-Balloon                 ...1-
                                           Numl)e,
                                Certain DOllbtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total
                                                    0
                                                         14.r;:,


                                                         ~- ,,,,       ~
                                                                           Per Cent


                                                                              ti.A "-'.•        J
                                                                                                          Number
                                                                                                             PerC"11


                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                         ltl,r;


                                                                                                                         3 In~                  ,P.tJ 110
                                                                                                                                                                             Number                Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                                                                                      ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu
                                                                                                                                                                       .(.l.           u
                                                                                                                                                                                                  /9S.L

                                                                                                                                                                                                  t/o 1~1./ /J~ ,f. ft...-,;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PerC01t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Total Certain Doubtful Total




I       I-Astronomical
        2-Aircratt
        3-Li&hl Phenom.
        4-Bird$
                                  0
                                  0
                                   .,~
                                                0
                                                0
                                                 0       .j" 'I.I -,
                                                         n
                                                         ,.,
                                                                 A/J
                                                                 I) 0
                                                                             /),1 "-f']
                                                                              /lt)
                                                                              ,;A
                                                                                       t?.Cl
                                                                                       ;?.~
                                                                                                ..l.

                                                                                                0
                                                                                                 I         ,0
                                                                                                           ,,,
                                                                                                               I


                                                                                                                         b
                                                                                                                          .3 111.2
                                                                                                                          I ti.I
                                                                                                                                     AD
                                                                                                                                                t/1 ;u, ;g 14
                                                                                                                                                A.P
                                                                                                                                               (1.p
                                                                                                                                                          '1_ I
                                                                                                                                                           tJ.()
                                                                                                                                                                      :ti
                                                                                                                                                                         4             "   ?
                                                                                                                                                                                                  3)


                                                                                                                                                                                                    I..
                                                                                                                                                                                                       1. 3 j~ 7 111,
                                                                                                                                                                                                  32. f.J" 4.r 111/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I./       ,,,_, .,          ~



                                                                              t?./J /J,d        0                                              t7 (l                                                ()                                 ,1_/J
                                   0         0            0      LJ.d                                                     0           P.(J                 17(1           ,1           0                         IIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           "·"
I                                                         ,,,                                              ·"             ,,
        S-Clouds, Oust, etc.      a             0                 AA           /),1
                                                                                       J.A       0         0                         A_()       A-
                                                                                                                                                           t?.P           I            4            S !!.d                 /.L ~ '
        6-lnsuffic.lnfo.          ,2.       0             2     ,,., ,!
                                                                              11.tl l:J. ~        I        0              I          9.1        ,:7.()        <;,;       /7           .0          J '1          ,,c;       P.Q          L~
                                                                              ,., r, 1,.1                                                                                                                       .i4 iY ~.,;
                                                                                                                                                                      "',,' t
        7-PsycOOlogical                                    I                                                                                                                              I         '1
                                                                                                                                    ,~ ..
                                  I         0                    i,.j                            0                       el          t7.o       41.0 (J.11
                                                                ,.., ,,. A/l ,,, ,,.
                                                                                                           ,!J

        &-Unknown                                        2                                                               ,t                               .J.7.3                                  -t,           /8.6 tJ.P              v,I
                                  ,,.2 I
                                                                                                 l


I
                                            0                                                              0                                   P.O                                     ()

    9-0lller                                              I     ,1 ;')        /..,     6.1      0         0              (7          ,:J.(J     0.11       t? (I                                  I~ J.L.                  /.,z        t/,r:i


    I      Total                1r              I       It. 90               t. l.. Ntl Jo                     I'        II         ~.9         fl        /,A
                                                                                                                                                                      /14             u ~,,,,                   rfMI      .tf.L I IAA

I                                                    ALL. ./FAJ:!('
                                                                                 SffEP                     ,1,:              -A.JP(!TS
                                                                                                                        /9/i..7
                                                                                                                                                              l._i::SS               _,,   ..       A•tf


                                                                                                                                                                                                  I f ~r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    , ✓,,,,~    ,,r    /J        M/1._d:.f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ;777?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ar-&,             lf'ov,11


    I                                   Number                Per Cent                Numbe,                Per C"11                Nuntler               Per Cent                Number                                                                                                   PerCmt


I            Evaluation
        0-Batloon
        I-Astronomical
                                 ,~ ~,
                                Certain D°"btful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu


                                  /6
                                             :)

                                             10
                                                ,' t3 1..2~.<; l~.9 ~?.)
                                                         u, .rlf. Ji/.(
                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                    ,,
                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                   ()
                                                                                                                               I     ~Al

                                                                                                                                      11/J
                                                                                                                                                 A.(/
                                                                                                                                                 (J.IJ
                                                                                                                                                              r., A
                                                                                                                                                              AA
                                                                                                                                                                          L
                                                                                                                                                                             ~              I
                                                                                                                                                                                              I      '1 Jl'I,( L., in,~
                                                                                                                                                                                                    4 1-R.J                ,.~         -,..<A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '- Ito 1.1 li:,,g
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3        11 143              :JI~

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,., ., ,
                                                                                                                           (!)

        2·Aircraft                /J         /9 .J:I 12 It, I. 11,9.                                          ,,,         ,,,        /Jb        A.11          J.CI           I              I      .2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                '-~        /..~ , . I/                                            1'()      14-3 /~~

I
                                                                                                    ()

        Hiat,tPh.-.m.              t:J        1     ~   PO /1 17                                 ,, .,c                   ()          /J.A      /J./J          Ill?          ()           0         t)            At}        AA         A.(}          0           0      tJ       IJ.1'      P."       tJ. ,7
        4-Birds                   .1         I      4- 17 tJ.I. ;U                              .,., ,.,                              111        /.?,/J        o.~           ()        0            t)             A,        ,1.(J      A.A           ()      ,.,                 11.f?                AA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,,,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ~
                                                                                                                         (!)                                                                                                                                                                 I.()
        5-Clouds, Dus~ el~             I        I        ,;;,   o.l.         0.'        ·1,;     A         ~
                                                                                                                         0             A         iJ?,
                                                                                                                                                               ,, ,       ()              d         0             ,1.~                  A()       ()          ~          ()      ().()       (),()     tJ./J
                                   /,,                                                                                                                                                ,,
                                                          '      J. ~                   '<'-~                                                                                                                                                                               I     7.1                   ? I
        6-lnsuffic.lnfo.                        0                                                /J        ()                         ,1_,J                    AA
                                                                                                                                                                             tJ                     0            A.A        (J.tl       ,1.,1             ;    ()                            ().O



I
                                                                              17, 0                                      I?                      A/i
        I-Psychological            ~         0           .:{     /I          (11.(J     I I
                                                                                                .,.,       /]             D           ,J.tJ       111         //J        .,., ,,                    (?           A A        ,.,_,.,     ,A            a       0          ,:J      i!) ()    (J.D       .:,A
        &-Unknown               ,U,             0       ,li:    l,(,t         t}.D 11\I~          0        0              D           AO         /l ,         11./J          J         ()            I           L.,        A.11        L.:               I   0           J      '1,J        ,,.,,      7. I
        9-0ther                   f         ..1         II       M 1.1                  (..J          I    0               I       I r-1.A        AA      l,A,11         I')          2            ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .,,,., 1,. ,. 1,.,_ .•                  I               I       .,_,       o.o         ?/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              "
I           Total              Ill 6,'< /Jo 11.J~, !U I/A.I.                                    ;;         0             .2 11001                d.11     I/~ JI                      r           1, lu_1 ~I,, l,11A                              q           ~,       14- ~3 l<'J~ 1 lloA



I            Evaluation
                                           rtimber
                                                        /'?'.,,-0
                                                              Per Cent                  Number                Per Cent
                                                                                                                        !Pr"/
                                                                                                                                      Number                Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                  /?r.~
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Per Cent
                                Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total K::ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                                              ~.,,
        0-Balloon                  ¢             I       .5 ,?JJ a: 9 L1<?.4                          I        0                1 IJ(d            AA
                                                                                                                                                                         J~           ;. I        .51 I -'J.' 1(,. ,- VII,
                                                                                                                                                                                            ..,
I       I-Astronomical
        2-Aircraft
        3-Li&htPhenom.
                                   J
                                   0
                                       I        ,.,
                                                 0

                                                 0
                                                          I J-9 tJ.t) C9
                                                         3 11-,,-' /) () 117.t
                                                         ()      ,.,          t?.P     ,I.()
                                                                                                 ~
                                                                                                 J
                                                                                                 /)
                                                                                                               I

                                                                                                              ,:J
                                                                                                              ,,         0
                                                                                                                           J
                                                                                                                             I l.7J:o
                                                                                                                                      A




                                                                                                                                      A.O
                                                                                                                                           A   .;/,(A

                                                                                                                                                 A.(}
                                                                                                                                                 tl./J n.A
                                                                                                                                                           ,ii{-,
                                                                                                                                                              ~.,-,
                                                                                                                                                                             ~

                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                            ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                  14 J ,- J~J- II./.
                                                                                                                                                                                           ,, 24 /.i 1.i.t
                                                                                                                                                                                                         :f      t?.o       ).4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IJ<l,O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '7. II
        4•Birds                    0                     tl                   ~-" t?./1                                  ,,                      t).O         t'.ll       ":I           I            4-           '·"       ~.'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            tJ.9


I
                                                0                 JJ.o                           (I           0                       A ..1
        5-Clouds, Dus~ ,1~         ()        0           (?      ,')_()      (). ()    /J,IJ     ,, ,.,                  ,.,          0,/        /J.11        d,o            I         I            ::)·         tl.f ,,,,1             /,I.
        6-lnsuflic.kllo.                                                                                                                                                 .d.-                       d            2/                          I
                                                                                                                                                 ,,.,
                                   I            0          I      ("(;       0,0        .i;"\       ()     0             0            /J,1       11d          d.A                         ()                                0.0         <I
                                                                                                                                      .,,,,                                                         ~            16
        7-Psycholo~cal             0
                                             ,,
                                                ()

                                                         ~
                                                          n
                                                                 "·'         ,:?_ (J    ,7/J     0         0             0                                     a/)

                                                                                                                                                          t.5.d /7
                                                                                                                                                                             ~         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                  "'"                                    /,t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,d-~
                                   ~                             ~C•                   fl£'
                                                                                                                                                                                       " 11 /J.4
        I-Unknown                                                                                                         I l.::>;:o


I
                                                                             ()."                    I        0                                  tJ /                                                                       •A


        9-Qlfle,                   I        C            I       .S~1        11.0       re;      0         ()             0           /J,J       p,J'J         ~-~
                                                                                                                                                                                 ,      I    .sti IJ.8 --;;, ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                     .t:,


            Total                lb              I      17 14'4.I J~'1 Ila<                     J              I         4, 11J.o ;u: 0 /;9/J,                        1'1 .rt7 /,21 {,p.f. .19.4 ,.,.,,.

I                                                                                                                                              207

I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                   ALL l';;ARC
                                                                                     <"E'ePs                    /7,C-

                                                                                                                               /9¢1
                                                                                                                                    A4JP,'TS
                                                                                                                                                            ,
                                                                                                                                                                  /}A,         U//u/14£,:J

                                                                                                                                                                                                     /t;~f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ~,,, Ftl//£                lhH'14§/J                M// £.S

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /7, ~r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .;?e~     Htl//R    I
                                    rt,-                  Per Cent                N"'ber                                          Nu-              Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                         Per Cent              Number               PerCmt



1
I
         Evahralian
    0-Balloon
    1-Astrooomical
                            Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tolal Certain Doubthrl Tolal Certain lloublfll Total J;ertain Dold>tful Total Certain Doubtful Total Celwn Doubtful Total Calain llDmtllll Total
                             ,.,J11
                             /.;i
                                           ,f
                                          /j
                                                      ,n 3.4 .u II/ .'I
                                                      ,<.[ f.O               .r: 4- 114 JI         0
                                                                                                    .]
                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                      0         3
                                                                                                                                tl
                                                                                                                                        .711,0
                                                                                                                                         o,,,
                                                                                                                                                      t)_/1

                                                                                                                                                     /J ()
                                                                                                                                                                "'"/J
                                                                                                                                                                  /l/1
                                                                                                                                                                            I

                                                                                                                                                                            '
                                                                                                                                                                                       4
                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                     .5         5,1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                     4 ,~.o so .:?4./J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '7114    .,,,o       ,J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,., .:I         0        .2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      :1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /"-J- tP.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,,_()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1A ,(

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /o.r IAI:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
!2-Aucraft                   rJ            ,,_(,       34 I.Jd3 111.q tL                            J             0                I      [. 7 ~tl               fo.7      4-                        ("       :20/J        kO Af:O            4-         :z.          (, :,//          •n !, ~ 1,,1,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,,
    3-Lighf Pbenora.
    4•8irds
    S-Clouds, Oust, etc.
                               -~
                               ,.
                               /J
                                              I


                                              ~
                                               I
                                                        ,I. J. ~ P. 4. I
                                                         I       /1.tl
                                                       .:z PO t!J./l ,,.~
                                                                             0 ¢        /),If,     p
                                                                                                    /



                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                  0

                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                0

                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                   I     /.7
                                                                                                                                         Po
                                                                                                                                         ,O_IJ
                                                                                                                                                     '1.tl
                                                                                                                                                     t).O
                                                                                                                                                     tl.o
                                                                                                                                                                 L7
                                                                                                                                                                  /J,O
                                                                                                                                                                 A,0
                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                               I       0
                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                     I

                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                         I    Po
                                                                                                                                                                                                                5.0 P.O

                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,!1,(7     (),d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,t'J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ;-.o .,:a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            11.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /Jn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            p,O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      47.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      b,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IJ.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               J b
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IJ 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               /1/',
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
    6-lnsuffic. flfo.       ..2;L          0          2~ '1.2                IP.O       'f.1       I             0               I       £7          ,0,0         t..7     :z.     0                 :l       10,/J      tl.O IP.()          r"          0           ~-    ,1'-3      P. (7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ~" 'I
    7-Psydlolo~cal
    11-Unkno..
    9-0ther
                               L
                            .i-i
                               7
                                         ,0
                                           :2

                                           0
                                                         8 .7.J
                                                      .s-J •1L.3
                                                               "·" 2'/J
                                                        '1 f'1 pp ..H
                                                                             P.f        '-l,.
                                                                                                   L
                                                                                                    I

                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                 t)

                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                  I             ~         /,7
                                                                                                                                (, IA..o C,0
                                                                                                                                 I t..1 tJ. (7
                                                                                                                                                     ,.7 1,~.q
                                                                                                                                                                vao
                                                                                                                                                                 ~-7
                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                           ;I.
                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                    0


                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                     tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ~

                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,,,,,     P.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                              11.0 tJ.tl "· /'J 4-
                                                                                                                                                                                                              tl.o O.p /)/J      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ~()        0           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,:7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ¢
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            tJ.P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ~//

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (l.lJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      P.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,,, 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      tl.P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               11,/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,;//
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               o./J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
        Total               /'lt 53 ,2-3i( 77.'i ~:l. /t)tJ. l'f                                                  I            /!, 13.3 (. 7                    ,oa /3                 7 :zo bS,I ?SP W>.                                   /$°          4- /9 7/'i :zu /a',
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                               /f'!rJ?                                                                        /9'.S-I                                                              I :}'S'-?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
I Evaluation
    0-Balloon
    1-Astiunomical
    2-Aircraft                    .J
                                         Number



                                           V
                                                  J
                                                          PerCent




                                                        3 1-.s- 9. J 11.,tf,
                                                                                    Nu-




                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                          Per Cent
                            Certain Doubtful Total Certain lloul>tful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobthrl Total ~ertain Doubtful Total Certain

                               I
                                  I
                                              0
                                                        .2 d~ 4.~- 'l.,?

                                                        -r ,2:2.1 ().0 12.7
                                                                                                    ,:}


                                                                                                    3
                                                                                                                      /
                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                  Number


                                                                                                                                ,< /,!J P.O 1/R..:! //
                                                                                                                                :? 91 o/./ l'l..7 /
                                                                                                                                4 ~1.:3 9.1         4-1
                                                                                                                                                         Per Cent




                                                                                                                                                                ~.,
                                                                                                                                                                                    J

                                                                                                                                                                                   2 2.
                                                                                                                                                                                        7
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Id
                                                                                                                                                                                                    14
                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                              d.l. ¢.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                    L~ ~1.o JI., 'IJ,.J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,?.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Total Certain lloul>tfu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  q,.:;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Q'1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Nnber                     Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Total Certain Doubtful Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
    3-Light Phenom.
    4-Birds
                                /J
                                   I)
                                           0
                                           0
                                                        tJ
                                                                 ,
                                                                     tl.11 t?n
                                                                      (l     Clo
                                                                                        J,t)
                                                                                                    "             0             tZ)       t)(l        0./1
                                                                                                                                                     17. II
                                                                                                                                                                 tM
                                                                                                                                                                  A/1
                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                               0       n
                                                                                                                                                                                           J         ..l
                                                                                                                                                                                                     tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,IJ,

                                                                                                                                                                                                              IJ.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1 tl.?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /,9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /7,d

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                       CJ                              ,1.0        /J            0              0         0.Q
    5-Cloud~ Dus~ etc                     n                                            /),6                                    ,. no cv, ,,_,,                                         ,             ;I.                 /.3       /3
    6-lnsuffic.lnfo.          ..1-
                                   l'J
                                          0
                                                        0
                                                       .6- .7:J.7
                                                                 tl.O
                                                                            ,, ,, i,...,_7
                                                                             '1.0                  0
                                                                                                   0             0
                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                               ,,_,      6),()       o_,,        ~ll
                                                                                                                                                                            ~

                                                                                                                                                                            9       ()               9 IJ~-?
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,J'.IJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ().0      t:'I
    1-Psychologicat            I          0              I       4,- 0.0                Y.~        0              0            0         P.o         tJ, t1      A,11      4-       I                f        -2.t.      t!?.'1    -t~
    &-UnknoMI                  6                        t.       .JU P. 0 ::i7.S                    ?                0                   If,                    J,g.:J      J'1    .o .31 ,<J':tl Q.O 1-,.,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                           0                                                                                    ::l                  p,(l

    9-0ther                    ~          0             0        tJ.o        ~-0       t).()        I            0               I       9.1 o.o 91                         .r      0               .s-
                                                                                                                                                                                           3.3 t7 0 :3', '(

I       Total                ;q 3 .n. J{.4 13., JO().                                              9              ,i           JI       Lf/J' /,f,:i. lllA /It. .3(, /fl. -f/3 2!.?                                                IM




                                                   ALL VEAR.<'
                                                                                <p,,,-,-:LJs                    />C             tllfJ.t:,-rS
                                                                                                                              /<?,,.1-7
                                                                                                                                                                          tJl/cP                     ;:-au.e
                                                                                                                                                                                                   / 9        ~,r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ·-        -           MILES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /~/,19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           "'7EL       ,,,.,,,,,,e      I
I                                   Number                Percent                                         Per Cent                Nunter                Per Cent                Number             PerCmt


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                   Number
         Evaluation
    0-Balloon                 lk           JR          31,.      J.!, 3.3
                                           .µ; 1/;l. ;/.r iJ:I ,A.1'-
                                                                                        ,.
                            Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain IJooJ>tful Total Certain Ooobllul Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Ooubtfu Total Celwo Doubtful Total
                                                                                             (,         I                 0         I     ..1.2       P.t7       ~..:I         I               I         ,<3. 0 -l.o /2"
                                                                                                                                                                                                         q 9.1 If 2 ~7..3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0              0        tJ     A.o      tJ.o     JA
    1-Astrooomical
    2-Aimaft
                             t:,3
                             2►            7;- /.f7 1.r:o /J. 7 '11.1
                                                                                                    ..J'               4
                                                                                                                      ,:t
                                                                                                                                q 1//.,/ /~.q ~9.o
                                                                                                                                :)  ,,,, t..5 /.,!,
                                                                                                                                                                            .!
                                                                                                                                                                            .1             '
                                                                                                                                                                                           I             4 9/            J.o 12,1            t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              :z.        1,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          J      -   Ji
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     II
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           d.? 1~7 :I. i'IJ,9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           N.o //.(, 11<.t,
    3-Light Phenom.
    4--Bi«ls
    frClouds, Oust. etc.·
                               1
                               J
                                0
                                           3 /0 /.J /)J- l.'1

                                           0
                                            -,.... .• I] - ll.d I) q
                                                   0
                                                             -
                                                      i?.tJ tl.11 Jd
                                                                                                    "
                                                                                                    ,1
                                                                                                   ,:;
                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                  L)

                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                  0            0
                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                ()
                                                                                                                                         ll.P
                                                                                                                                         tJ.Q
                                                                                                                                         tl.O
                                                                                                                                                     i{l.P
                                                                                                                                                     P.tl
                                                                                                                                                      o.o
                                                                                                                                                                  ,U,
                                                                                                                                                                 /J.()
                                                                                                                                                                 ,?.()
                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                             I      :L

                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                     3

                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                         2
                                                                                                                                                                                                              :J.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                               ~o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                tJ.t;>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         J.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    9./
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (,/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   tf.()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ()

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0        ()

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            "-" o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            t).0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            tJ.g o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               /?/J

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -<.~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ti ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
    6-lnsutfic.lnfo.        4-.(.             0        4c.       (.4                   fl.if        2             0             ~         (,.i-      I) ,,       t,.6'      4-      0                4 I.V                        I;(./         ?        0           3      to AIJ             "7,t'J


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                             11.tJ                                                                                                                                       ,.,0
    7-Psycholoeical                7          .3       /J
                                                       /e,                   0.J.'      }, ~        0             I                 I    t?.o        J,;J.       1. .:1     fl      0                    tJ    O.t1       0.0      ,I)_/)           I    0           I      2.3       () 0     2.~
    II-Unknown              14-J              0 11,?J ~[.S                   (I.()    I-?L'.J l l  0                           /3 4-1.'J IJ.0 1/19                          -J      0                    1 :1.1.:1       o.o      -!J/_~        f        0            s !I.L          /J 0     N'
    ,-Other                  .2 J              4-     .n ,Ji. /) 7 '/. ~                       J .o                             .3 97 tJ.O <?.1                                I       I             .2        ?.o :J.o L.d                     I         0           I     J3        0.0      .7.~

        Total               314 t.S'4 f'4i 719 2f. J Jt,f, ~4                                                         1        .JI 1714 :v.(,                   JM        .:ll /,Z 33 t:~., U4, •A~                                         21          .u 43 14.f:x ..r/..:l. 1/,,.,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
         Evaluation
                                         r.Jmber
                                                      /9 .r£7
                            Certain Doubtful Tolal Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                           Percent                              Number
                                                                                                                              19 -:-;

                                                                                                  ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                                   Per Cent                      Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                   l<l'J:-7
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Per Cent                Number                Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                          ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
    0-Balloon                  .I          0            .3           N.      /Jt7       ti.                 I            0          I     di          /1.IJ      4~ 1~ /7                           )9 J,/               4., 7t
    I-Astronomical
    2-Aircraft
I3-Lighl Phenom.
                               /


                               b
                                .,
                                           4

                                           0
                                               4-
                                                       ~- Y.f ll<i 1/'/."3
                                                        ")
                                                        0
                                                                 Jl.i J/4 b-<.~
                                                                 t?.o
                                                                          "·"IP t7
                                                                                                    ¢.
                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                            1

                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                      ttJ
                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                      t7."
                                                                                                                                                                 t.a Iii 5.el //,fl
                                                                                                                                ~- ;[.. 7 &.7 l.?tJ. 9 I. 4 62. 11.:1, 11..i /1..:l ~~ .t
                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                   7 :29.:z. ,, ,, 1<1"1-' ¢_,-

                                                                                                                                         th                      f'::?     .r-
                                                                                                                                                                                   IQ


                                                                                                                                                                                       I                 {,    n          P.~      JC.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                    ,I)                                                                    ,)_                       .:1      p.f
    4-Birds                    0              0         0        17.P n.o               ,? ,,
                                                                                                                  0             tJ        tl.b        ,9,o       /.JA              0                                     (),fl     .i.S
    ~Clouds, Dust, elc.
    6-lnsuffic.lnfo.           "
                               .J          (J
                                              0        ,:,
                                                        3
                                                                  /7.11
                                                                 KL
                                                                             17.0
                                                                             p-,       ~,
                                                                                        ,1,-J      tJ
                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                  0

                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                tJ
                                                                                                                                         tP..
                                                                                                                                         t!J. t1
                                                                                                                                                      /) (7

                                                                                                                                                      ()_ 0
                                                                                                                                                     4-, i. v~
                                                                                                                                                                 t)_t)
                                                                                                                                                                  All     .N
                                                                                                                                                                            t)
                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                     (J

                                                                                                                                                                                                    g ?- t. 'I
                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.0       ll.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         tl.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /J/>

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Y. 'l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,.,;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
    7-Psych:llogical
    I-Unknown
                              0
                             II
                                           0            (7       P.O
                                                                 .lid
                                                                             /J .•      tl.t7      /J
                                                                                                    ?
                                                                                                                     I          I
                                                                                                                                7
                                                                                                                                          ,.P
                                                                                                                                                     t1. 0 ..,,,, 1'7  ' I                               ?
                                                                                                                                                                                                    qq 7 ..N
                                                                                                                                                                                                               /.(.      P.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         o.o      _✓,,q



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                           0           //                    /],?     '~I fl                     0                       :7'?.).                                    0
9-0ther                       ~            ..z          4        J~7 S:7              /IA          ,1.           ,:,           ,:l      li..3        t9,tJ       k'."I    14-          I            /5' .1. 7            P.3 Y',,,

        Toltl               .2..r         /0          .JS 1N ,Ut, /AA                             .:l:l ,z                    .29 91? i'.3 /OJ ,UI                                                 !~R, I1J./. 21d I/a,'.
                                                                                                                                                                                   '"'
                                                                                                                                                   208
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
I
I
I                          1:.d.ll- e


                                       Number
                                                      dll../

                                                     All       v.,,.,R.\'
                                                             Per Cent
                                                                              ._,_El=tJ                  AF


                                                                                                        Number
                                                                                                                       nA
                                                                                                                       / I ;-?
                                                                                                                              PerCmt
                                                                                                                                    r-11.. r<


                                                                                                                                                      Number
                                                                                                                                                                   M~-rJ!=tJ~ - i-/1::E


                                                                                                                                                                            Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                        J "i ,/,f
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .<;'l"'EE~S


                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PerCmt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /f?,,~9'

             Evaluation        Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total                    Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tot~


I       0-Balloon
    11-Ast10nomical
                                  t:)

                                . l [ ,).4
                                           2             ,:1     tlP
                                                       ..rq U.4 1,11, 2 ~91.
                                                                 t I
                                                                            '2 (?      7. 0                                                                          t!I
                                                                                                                                                                    /.
                                                                                                                                                                    ,.,
                                                                                                                                                                            .i-
                                                                                                                                                                            ,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                ()
                                                                                                                                                                                         "        PP       0, Q
                                                                                                                                                                                         JI ~-A :/R <' l,td,1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    P,0       L)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,,1.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 :I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tJ.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ",,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   p,p      tJ.,:,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /t)/).0 /pp,t!J


                                 '                       8
        2-Aircratt                            :J                             7p        SI                                                                                                0        P.P      P.'1      O.P      ,!)     0          (?     ,t,o       LJ,O     P.e,
                                 ,.,
I
        ~LlghtPha,om.                                                                                                                                                ()         0        ()       0,t!J             (JP               0                 P.P        0.()     ao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /]

    4•Birds                      t!I
                                           ,0
                                              J          "J      0.P        PO         e:J.O
                                                                                       J.o                                            "(/                           0
                                                                                                                                                                            "'0
                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.&7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0                 ;;,,,      o.,:, A.O
                                                                                                                                                                                         " P.O ao P."
                                                                 ,70         /p                                                                                                                   Pt!J
                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,!In                        /J                 ,/)

        S-Clouds, Oust. etc.     I         0             I       In         LJ.O       lo                                       ~                                   .I)                  0                 ()_O               eJ      0          p      ,,,,..,    ,:?.t,   ,tJ.O
        6-lnsuffit.lnlo.         f        0              e       ,U      8.10,0                                        ~                                            .;>     0            0        O.tJ     (7.()    P,O        0      n          p      &.O        PtJ      0.,:,
                                                                                                              ~\                                                                                                               ,.,
I
        7-Psydllloaical                    I              I ~.P /.P /.o                                                                                                                            o.o                                           p                 ao &1.o
        I-Unknown
                                 0
                               In:        t:)           /r,, //. 2 tJ p 1t.2                                   \
                                                                                                                                                                    /)

                                                                                                                                                                   ,:l
                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                         (1

                                                                                                                                                                                         ~       ,IS'.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                           (), 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                           If)()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     P.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    llr.4      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      "'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      {)         t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tJ,(J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tl.o       ,:?." ~o
        9-Dl!le,                 .I       0              3 J.o tl.o 1.0                                                                                            0        0            () 1,.,,:,        0.()     o.o        LJ     0          ,:;,   P.L7       t),P     (7,0


                                                                                                                                                                            s
I                              t9 3o 9q tf1 3tJ3 lfltl.                                                                                                             I                   I.J ,1..r U.j- /,10                                      ~
    I       Total                                                                                                                                                                                                             0       .;I._             o.o /0'7.P /PO




I            Evaluation
        0-Ballooo
                                       Nt!mber
                                                       1'1..--0
                                                             Per Cent                Number                PerC01t
                                                                                                                           /9J'/
                                                                                                                                   Nun>er                 PerCt!lt

                                                                                                                                                           ,. ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                  Number
                                                                                                                                                                                        /9J'2

                               Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful ,Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu
                                                         a:> P.O                                                                                                    0           .l.      2                 3.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PerC01t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                     /)

                                 _,- 4-
                                                0                           ,!/ tJ     (l.{!?     l'J
                                                                                                               " 4          IP        Pn          OP                                              tJ:t>              3.o



I                                                        <1                 44.4 /t/110                                                                                                          ""'·" 14. q 49..-<
        I-Astronomical                                          ,;-,</_                            I          _,?                    /7,J l.11.[ .rt10 ,.l.J                /0          )3
        2·AircraH
        3·Licht Phenom.
        4-Birds
                                 /')

                                 0
                                 t')
                                           0
                                           0
                                              .0        tP ,!J,() ,:7,(7 i!l.P
                                                        p ,IJ,P (/ 0 tJ p
                                                        p  t7..0 ?l.P P.o
                                                                                                   ()
                                                                                                  ,.,
                                                                                                  /)
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                              ,,,
                                                                                                              ,IJ
                                                                                                                            17
                                                                                                                            ,:;,
                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                      (),(}
                                                                                                                                      ,P.o
                                                                                                                                     ~-0
                                                                                                                                                  Pfl
                                                                                                                                                  tl.P
                                                                                                                                                  (/, 0
                                                                                                                                                          fl.o
                                                                                                                                                           /7.;?
                                                                                                                                                           (/P
                                                                                                                                                                    '
                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                    0       )
                                                                                                                                                                                ..2
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                         3
                                                                                                                                                                                         t7
                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                  9. .J.o l,'l.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                  () 0

                                                                                                                                                                                                  /Jn
                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                           O.P
                                                                                                                                                                                                            1...-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     tJ.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /.J"
                                 ,,,                                                                          .,,
I       I-Cloud~ Dus~ etc
        6-/nsuffic.lnfo.
        7-Psycholoaical
                                 0
                                 t'J
                                           n
                                           0
                                           0
                                                         p
                                                        e?
                                                         p
                                                                 fl.()
                                                                 tJ.17 ().(7
                                                                 tl,e,
                                                                            P.o


                                                                            0." (/_ ()
                                                                                       <P,,,
                                                                                       (7"
                                                                                                   0


                                                                                                   A
                                                                                                    I     ,,,
                                                                                                          n
                                                                                                                            p
                                                                                                                            I l:z.,r
                                                                                                                            p O.o
                                                                                                                                      tJ:.d       P.tJ



                                                                                                                                                  "·" .
                                                                                                                                                      ..-
                                                                                                                                                  (7.0 /~.
                                                                                                                                                           0.0


                                                                                                                                                          ;;,,
                                                                                                                                                                     J
                                                                                                                                                                     ?
                                                                                                                                                                     ,:J    I
                                                                                                                                                                                /')

                                                                                                                                                                                0        1 /(14 (I 0
                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                             I     /.,-

                                                                                                                                                                                                I., /..1'
                                                                                                                                                                                                  0,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    ;-,q
                                                                                                                                                                                                           0,0       /. J'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /p,¢


        8-UnknD'MI                ()       0             ,t)     ,!;,,:,    &),"       ,!J,"      .:2.    0                 ~ 2,f',()             {),()   2.s"g    h-       0           / j /U




I
                                                                                                                                                                                               " 0
        9-0ther                  tJ        0            e?      tJ,t:J      ,;11.P Pt7              I     0                 I 11~.., P. 0 /.,). .r                  > 0                 ~ ., 0 (),   3o       "
            Total               .$         4            9 .$'.s',{. 44,4 /,:,(),                 $"       .J               R (,l.J ~7.!' /PtJ. 51 lb                                    l, 7 [7(.1 .1l9 /(),o,



I                              f?V{t.£



                                       Number
                                                      Au. 11EAH.r
                                                             Percent
                                                                              EVAL Vllrt0/11


                                                                                     Number                PerC01t
                                                                                                                       t2E

                                                                                                                        /'147
                                                                                                                                   Number
                                                                                                                                            tM ✓lf/!1'.
                                                                                                                                             ..            ,
                                                                                                                                                         Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                   Sf6 ttT(/1/6 S


                                                                                                                                                                                 Number
                                                                                                                                                                                         /9<1/
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Fae ALL

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /9(/9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PerCa:lt


I            Evaluation
        0-Balloon
        I-Astronomical
                               Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu
                                 i~ 4,() lo~ "I.I. .d.1        ~


                                //J~ gq ).o4 IJ'l I /1 '1 ..(Y.<
                                                                                        ,~         ,,2
                                                                                                    ~
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                               .2.
                                                                                                                            ..1
                                                                                                                            f
                                                                                                                                      t.9 (7,:, lt.9
                                                                                                                                     lo~ (9 1/1....7
                                                                                                                                                                    ,,2
                                                                                                                                                                     '7
                                                                                                                                                                        ,   JO
                                                                                                                                                                                 3       ~,

                                                                                                                                                                                        1'1
                                                                                                                                                                                                  3.9 .r.9 q, 1 () '11' ti,,:, 7. t
                                                                                                                                                                                                  IJ.7 14,L l.tz,3 11 JI 41 It.~ 53.7 .r,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Total Certain Doubtful Total




                                 l.f '7J,,,. 1,1 /A,, '1,t; 19/,                                                                      ~-4 t)O ,14                                        I        13.' .J. " /,l,"7 '7 2  9 11. 2.2 91
        2-AircraH                                                                                   I          0                I                                                   J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,.,    ,,,
I       3-Li&htPh"'°".
        4-Birds
        I-Cloud~ Dus~ et~
                                 /6

                                  .0
                                     {.
                                                'i ,u' I.If I.I
                                                .t'
                                                ()
                                                        II
                                                        ()
                                                                  P,'1
                                                                 ii,,:,
                                                                            At.
                                                                            /JP ,:Jp
                                                                                        ,u
                                                                                         11         0
                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                    q
                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                  0         I
                                                                                                                            ()

                                                                                                                            ()
                                                                                                                                      N   tf).P ~.4

                                                                                                                                      "'·" t)O tl.O
                                                                                                                                      ,,,.,
                                                                                                                                                  (l,,:J (), 17
                                                                                                                                                                     ,D
                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                     /)          (I
                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                         tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                             J    I) 0
                                                                                                                                                                                         :l 2. () 2." (..o
                                                                                                                                                                                                  t) tP
                                                                                                                                                                                                           .2.o


                                                                                                                                                                                                           t/,P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.6

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,!)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ;J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6   n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       e,        .2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tUJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ~-'2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0,()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   o.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   t;!,O

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (l"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            "·"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.:;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            i9. 0
        6-lnsuffic.lnfo.       1!>4      IJ4 II.I P.t:J /~/
                                                0                                                              0            9        V11          ,t),0   1111      <1          0         q II?' P.P l!7L                     tit     0         14 /..r.;z        ,!J,O     /~

I       l•Psycholo1ical
        I-Unknown
        9-0ther
                                I)..

                               !JI.
                                     .2. 14 /4- ()2 I. C,
                                      0 11, //.4 iP.o /c. '/
                                ?4 I .Z d./. d/ 1.4 £.{
                                                                                                  .2
                                                                                                   J
                                                                                                   t.     e,
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                            ~
                                                                                                                            3
                                                                                                                            6 211.?
                                                                                                                                      t.9
                                                                                                                                     IA~
                                                                                                                                                  tJ.O    (9
                                                                                                                                                  b () i/(),'
                                                                                                                                                  p,,:;, :2., '
                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                     J
                                                                                                                                                                     .2     J
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                0        3
                                                                                                                                                                                          I ,:l.o (7.() ,2,,:,
                                                                                                                                                                                                  J:9 0 (> .f'.9
                                                                                                                                                                                         .:r .3.fi ,~ q 9S d-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I I.I OP I. I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1 1C. O.b 1L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4 43 t),t) 43


I           Total              59q :u:i. 8J/ ~?/ ~1Q                                   ,.,.,,., .i1            ~        :Jq 1/.J.J t_q /,717                       J;l..    l'l         .n IL.:;,.1 37.3             /o(),    59 ~3 9.:Z &¢.I :,,:'I It/fl




I            Evalualioo
                                       Number
                                                        l4J,..n
                                                             PerC01t
                               Certlin Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                     g
                                                                                                        Number
                                                                                                                            /q,1-;
                                                                                                                              Per Cent                 Number                Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                         /t:;,,, :J
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Number                Per Cent
                                                                                                 ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total i;ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                   ,If
        0-Balloon                               .2      /(7      //.,1 -l.9 1,1,.
                                                 /C. ,.,, f.? 121.I
                                                                                                    J           .J          d          It.
                                                                                                                                                  "'" It '7/ .14
                                                                                                                                                             J2
                                                                                                                                                                 ,,,,..
                                                                                                                                                                        l.:i. 0 /J.J     1J'


I       I-Astronomical
        2·Aircraft
        Hi&hlPhenom.
                                12
                                  q
                                 ()
                                               4-
                                              J' 14 /J.'I '/./ ~A~
                                               0         0        t)()      oo P.O
                                                                                                  .>'
                                                                                                   (,
                                                                                                   ()
                                                                                                              fl
                                                                                                              4
                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                            I~
                                                                                                                           I() '1.J
                                                                                                                                       7.q /~.,
                                                                                                                                         L~ /.t:J
                                                                                                                                I /7.i'J I.I.. It.
                                                                                                                                                           ?~ L

                                                                                                                                                                   ✓.J
                                                                                                                                                                   I~
                                                                                                                                                                            (.J /It.
                                                                                                                                                                             7
                                                                                                                                                                              Lr

                                                                                                                                                                                         .,,, 2'1
                                                                                                                                                                                                  /J.(
                                                                                                                                                                                                   In I    /;?,() ~2./
                                                                                                                                                                                                            I~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     :1,.11


                                                                                                                                                                                                                      d;J.
        4-Birds                   0            0         0       ti.& 0.111 p ()                   0           I                I 11.tJ 1, It.                      .l      .J           t.        fl I.    o(,      h

I       S.Clouds, Dust. etc.
        6-lnsuffi~ Int>.
        7-Psycholo&ical
                                  0
                                J.J
                                  If)
                                               0
                                                0


                                                0
                                                         Cl
                                                       /3 li.l
                                                        t7
                                                                 P.P P. t)

                                                                 P. (7 ti."
                                                                            If),,,
                                                                                       ~"'
                                                                                       II.I.
                                                                                        ,P,o      J
                                                                                                   /J
                                                                                                  /..:Z
                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                          p
                                                                                                          C
                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                           /:l       /9.o
                                                                                                                             /(_ tl.P It.
                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                      ,Jl.p


                                                                                                                                            ?
                                                                                                                                                  tl.tl tl.P
                                                                                                                                                  .nA   /yp
                                                                                                                                                                     /)

                                                                                                                                                                   ?"J
                                                                                                                                                                            :J
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                a
                                                                                                                                                                                         0        ao
                                                                                                                                                                                        17 N, P.O I/<(/
                                                                                                                                                                                         q /~ (/, 4 /?
                                                                                                                                                                                                           (JI)      tl.o


        1-Unkno•                14              0       14 .2'1.(7          ;;,_,::,   2Q,()     If       l)            /J' 1/1, ,? " LUt (//                               0            9/ /13 lfJ.P 1/H

I       ~Ille<


            Total
                                  .J

                                ~'(/       II 10
                                                0       .3      11.3 ,P.t, 4.J

                                                                 II~ /S.1 lloo.
                                                                                                   .J
                                                                                                 .d/_
                                                                                                              0          .J di P.t> ,/.J /{,

                                                                                                          1'1 16,3 '1Jo ..Z'7.t!J l#t?.
                                                                                                                                                                                9       .l.5' !O 11 47

                                                                                                                                                                   ~'ft. /.ftP Lr.,/ "fl." ,U.J' Nt1.



I                                                                                                                                             209

I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                          SvNl.-/t; HT o ,v N1HRNI
                                       Number                 Per Cent
                                                                         Ewu·vilr/tllJ/
                                                                         d</       ,l../hll?"
                                                                                                <2E           Au
                                                                                                      ,R,,,,. u~ue SS
                                                                               SvNJ-/l:H?" p,y A1-VNI/Y//M
                                                                               1




                                                                                Number                Per Cent
                                                                                                                        S/G/f'.OAtt;s

                                                                                                                             .rvNl-11-'"'T t)N P.,!..AsTF/f
                                                                                                                                  Number        Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                            S'vN1-1t,;#T PIV
                                                                                                                                                                                       Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Sr,,vc
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
         Evaluation
    0-Balloon
    1-Astmnomical
    2-Aimaft
                          Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total

                            2
                           /9
                                 'I
                                          ~
                                         /J.1-
                                                  1 'M F.9 '1.3 .?/
                                                 JJ :V,J/- III 3!.'l /.2.
                                                                                           '!,Ji ;J.:1...1 II
                                                                                        ;;_) 5";+
                                                                                   11,1 II. I ,.o 9
                                                                                         It)    2.1
                                          .J l;L //.I, J,.5 /,/,/ 1/-.:Z. :u; 7h 17.2.. /3,9 3/./
                                                                                                      ;;;.:

                                                                                                            £
                                                                                                                             ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total

                                                                                                                                        1 /? /2.1. '/J ~/./ -2. .L If IM
                                                                                                                                        9'   /f{/0,D IP 0 '1D./
                                                                                                                                      /3 19 1:7 JJ./;/f p,/
                                                                                                                                                                            Certain Dwbtful Total Certain Doubtful Total


                                                                                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                                                                                               (J
                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                          .:J
                                                                                                                                                                                                 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10,5 ).I.~
                                                                                                                                                                                                        JtJ,J S-.3 ;s:3
                                                                                                                                                                                                         J.O 1.S:f IS:3'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
    Hight l'halom.
    4·8irds
    ~Clouds, Dus~ el~
    6-lnsuffi~lnt».
                                 I
                                 rJ
                                 t)
                                 'f
                                          tJ I /.:l .w l,:Z.. tl
                                          tJ
                                          0
                                          tl
                                                   t?
                                                   ()
                                                         IJ.{,    0.0 /J.C
                                                         tJ.O /J.O t?.O :z_
                                              '1 /~6 ,?,(} //1.b 17
                                                                           /.I .tf /).l 1.6 l.b
                                                                                   I       I    :L
                                                                                         (/ 2 (7,'J
                                                                                          tl 17 70
                                                                                                       o.~
                                                                                                            ()
                                                                                                               t?.11 tJ.'l
                                                                                                               {J.() O.'{
                                                                                                         tJ.O 7.0 9
                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                          I  I    /),l
                                                                                                                                            2... I,/
                                                                                                                                                       /,1 I. I
                                                                                                                                                       /,/ J..;
                                                                                                                                      .:z__ '? I. I 2.l ,;:,
                                                                                                                                       tJ 'l 10,0 tJ(; /t).t)
                                                                                                                                                                               tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                p
                                                                                                                                                                               (J
                                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                                          t?
                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                          (J
                                                                                                                                                                                           ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                         t?O /J.() t)O
                                                                                                                                                                                                        iJ.()
                                                                                                                                                                                                        (}.()
                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,F.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S:3 s;3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  00 ao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /).Cl 3; 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
·--...
    7-Psydlolo~CII


    ~
                           IS-
                             I
                               .:z__     .2...   1.11 ,!.,I/ /f.f ~
                                                  1-f,
                                          t? IF 17.6 t?.o 17,6 .Y.P
                                         .J JI- /,.2- 3S 1/:7 9
                                                  ,.,. li.2
                                                                                         .L .tf tZ'6

                                                                                         2 II
                                                                                                         /7.'l

                                                                                                    3.7 t?.! /f,S .3
                                                                                                                      u
                                                                                                                      t)
                                                                                         CJ 5".:l. 21.3 tJ.O ;J../.3 1.5'
                                                                                                                                      CJ t? ao ao tJ.t
                                                                                                                                        tJ II 17.'o tJ.C, /7/l
                                                                                                                                       0 3 3.'J t).O J.3
                                                                                                                                                                               ,1
                                                                                                                                                                               ?
                                                                                                                                                                              ,,2...
                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                         tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                         tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 -~
                                                                                                                                                                                                        {2/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                      :U.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                 dL /ti,5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /J. () {).t,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ao '7L,3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  {l.tJ ;t.S'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
j       Total             ,j   '"% :L?                           3/,j' Jt//J. lo(       '11; 2.J.1,- If.) 31./ /{}/).        St 3.lf ft} (j.,). 37,ff IP/), /,/L                          7 I? t>l.2 30 /tftJ.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
         Evaluation
                          :":iv,v1..Jtu1r ,:,,v Sp;L
                                  Numbef                Per Cent
                                                                         f3'/?,~~TER T.#,t,v
                                                                                Number                PerCmt
                                                                                                               /%,,,y        Ll/(E
                                                                                                                              Nuntier
                                                                                                                                             /J'J;UN
                                                                                                                                                    PerCent
                                                                                                                                                                      Dt/J-1-,/i"/7 7i ~.,y /l-7p~,v
                                                                                                                                                                             Number               PerCe1I
                          Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doulllful Total Certain Doubtfu Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
    0.Balloon                 4      tJ      1-f 57./ 11,t)               sv
                                                                          19 .ZS 117 Jl.,L F.9 'I.ff                       I 2           3 I.'                nF.7 .5 7 /.Z. 7./ /0,0 /7,/
    I-Astronomical
    2-Airtrafl
    3-liehlPhenom.
                                 t?
                                ;J
                                0
                                         t>
                                         t)
                                           I         I ti.O 111.'J 111.3 113!- o9 I /91i .Z'Zf /JU 11-.2../ ~ II IS 7,J' ?/Jg :;.J,3 6 17 :Z.3 '/.6 '1..LLJ 3!1.'!
                                                    0 ;J.O tU t?,/J 1'7 £2. 79 _r,; I I. () IJ.7 /4 2 It ll.li 3.f JP.1 3
                                                    0 Av /J.f) /J.O h            :3 'I /,3 l>.6 J,9 I         '2  3 1.1 3.1 .5:7 I
                                                                                                                                        3   6 4.= 1/;3 !.J
                                                                                                                                         3 ,t./- !,it ,M3 S:7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
    4-Birds                      ()      0          0 to /J.{) tJ.() I          tJ I ~:;__ tJ.t ,?,:Z. tJ C) t) /JO tJ.() tJ,() I I -7 /,I/ I.JI- .2. f
    5-Clouds. Dus~ etc.
    6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
    7-Psychological
                                /J
                                /J
                                ()
                                         I
                                         I}
                                         0
                                                    I   f).O /LJ, '1 /IJ, < (J
                                                   t) t?.0 {)_() 0.0 .2..z
                                                   0 0.0 /J.IJ /J,O .3
                                                                               t> () ,1/ tJ,iJ 120 (J tJ () 0.0 {)./) tl() .0 t? {/ ,1.t) ,11. !JO
                                                                               t) ?7 /J~ t?o .11;7 C t) t) tJ.O /J.t} t).I, :J
                                                                               t? 3 t?.6 fJ.O t), 6 ~ I
                                                                                                                                        t) .3 Jf,3 t?ti J/.3
                                                                                                                  I ().,? I.ff I.? t) .2- 2- tJ() 2.~ .t..9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
    ~Unknown                   I        tJ         I 1/f.3 ao /ll;J 'I;2. t) 7:L /'/,J tJ.(J l'l5 /S' tJ /J j.J,3 tJ() ~~ IS" t? /~ l,:2/.4 /)() ,?.),//

I
    ~lher


        Total
                               0
                               .:,
                                        tJ         t l),P ao M /jj_ h $P 3,(} /.3 k,3 (J t) tJ tJ. () ll.u ~ti IJ '? 3 t?t lf.J #.3
                                         .z_ 7 1/.J; J.$.6 /,?P, JI)/ /.S~ W7.2 66.S 3.3.S /0/), 3S I( ..,5 ot,() 3.f./) /00.                                                '£.I- .;?6         7/J //-U, fl.JI /~ti.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                _fi'_,.o-&-J..Y          iltJ,:= I :                   ,¼,        .J'.r.,1r~n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
I Evaluation                      Number                Per Cent                Number                Per Cent               NuntJer               Per Cent                Numt.!r                              PerCml

    0.Balloon
    I-Astronomical
                          Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Dwbtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Douhtfu

                                 J
                                2.       0
                                           /       .2. 'l.3 f.3 It:£ lfJJ- /tJ,LJ. 2?1 9.D
                                                    ,2... /1.7 /J.0 1£.7 :Z9? ,2/)I/ 57)/ 11~.L
                                                                                                              #.6 /3.i
                                                                                                              '1.7 l:!3.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                Total Certain Doubtful Total

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
    2-Aircraft                   I        I        .2.. f:3 u IM ,sz 177 .l/..79 Ii/. 'l                      f.1 l'l.'J
    3-LightPh-.
    4-Birds
    ~Cloud~ Dus~ et~
                                t?
                                 tJ
                                 0
                                         L?
                                         tJ
                                         t?
                                                     0 (},l (),tJ ()./) ,23 II 3J/ I. I
                                                     () t:/0 tJ.t) M IS"
                                                     (J 0
                                                                                 6 :Z.J 11.'
                                                                  {)_() I),{} 9 II? 19 tJ.J./
                                                                                                              o.5 /,b
                                                                                                              o.3
                                                                                                                    '·"
                                                                                                               o.~ l'}.'1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
    6-lnsuffic.&nlo.            _2._     tl         2 /h /),/) JO :J..J.5        t) .2'1< /d.9                 /J.{) IP.'I
    7-PsychDlogical
    8-UnknoMI
    9-0ther
                           tJ.,.
                                0

                                0
                                         0
                                         IJ
                                        {/
                                                   /)       O.(} {J.f) tJ.O 3/   3 3Jt I-~
                                                  .JI. 33. ;J ti J'I, 11-7/.i 0 ll.l?-4 2.J./
                                                    /? /J.t /l.t) t},() 8'.J ..Z./ I/M 3,q
                                                                                                               "(),/)I J.S
                                                                                                                    l~:1.1
                                                                                                               /. 0 4.'I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
        Total             /t)            ?       /,2.... '6''33 II. I //)tJ. /601}, ,91-/ ~~ 11/.1 IJ( t..          ,~.                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                              210
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
I
I
I                             S //N/../G liT ,,, Jl0RRPli'
                                     Number                Per Cent
                                                                              )//NJ../4/;T "
                                                                                   NWPber
                                                                                                       d.
                                                                                                         Per Cent
                                                                                                                                 f.'VAIJ../~"-r ON ,t:j_,.c-rr-a
                                                                                                                                        Number                PerCent
                                                                                                                                                                                  ('.,1111L/~IJIT .0111 STt?,VC
                                                                                                                                                                                      Number                 Per Cent
    I                        Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total ~ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total         ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain D111blful Total Certain Doubtful Tot~


I
             Evaluation
    !D-Balloon
    r-
                               .J_ II- t 1..~ 5.1 r.o 2$                              /<?     ,;7 /1(/         9.6 2;i,.,         II        r l'I 'J.1//I II .1 ':J.£'1            .1..   ,.2..   JI. ltH //.,: 2/.fl
    !I-Astronomical           /7 /3 30 21.? 17.5 14.11,D II                                    :2./ ~.5 5.tJ IA.~                  9        3     12 l.t.a.     I/ I II.-,,       .1..      I     3 I0.5 5.3 IS.1'i
        2-Aircratt              f 3 I I I/). 7 "#        33            .~.,            /tJ
                                                                                      :Z.'I 6'1 11..6 1/1✓,i           ::.,.,,     6       /,2.   If 1./ 10 .24.3                 tJ       -~     3 /). {) 15-7' 15.'I:
                                                               ao ,.~                          3 ao /.15                                                                                           t M
I                                                                                                                                  0        I      I d(} /.', 1.4-
    3-Light Phenom.                ()  I /1,              ()                           3                                 /,f                                                      0       0                          /)I)    /)/
                                 I
    4-Birds                     u t'J           0     ao M /)1,                 I       I      .2- ,1~ tJ5              /,0        t?       I       I M /.J/ /,4,                 I)       I        I     tJ,{)     5-~ S.3
    ~Clouds, Dust, etc.         /)     0        ()tJ.O IJ.f, M I                       IJ   I j.5 12~ /J,r tJ                              ;z.    2._ IJ,t VI :1,7                 tJ     0        t? a()           ~I/ ,1.()
    6-lnsuffi, ~~-              6       t)      6 1.0 (),0 1'.d 17                     /J 17 1,5 /J.O u          9                          0      'I /,2,,2. /J.O /~-~            I      t?        I 5.'3          M .r. 3

I       7-Psydlllogical
        11-Unlulown
    9-0ther
                               jL
                              /ti
                                I
                                         I
                                       t7 It/ Jf.7 IJ.I.. Jt.'1 J3
                                       3
                                                3-H I.J 4-11
                                           Jf /.3 lf,C s',3      7
                                                                               ,:L     2.

                                                                                       2___
                                                                                           I+ /. 0 /.IJ :J,0 (7
                                                                                       /? 33 'I.I, /J.() //,.I, II
                                                                                                r J.6 J.O 4,5 I
                                                                                                                                           .0
                                                                                                                                           t?
                                                                                                                                            I)
                                                                                                                                                   tJ t).t tJo ,1L.
                                                                                                                                                  II IJ/.~ M /4-.'1
                                                                                                                                                   I I.~ /?,/) /,4
                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                  s
                                                                                                                                                                                  .z_
                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                           ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                   () ,1.() ,1.;;: /J.t
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ) _?,{.~ II-() au
                                                                                                                                                                                                  .1.. /4,5 ,1,{) Jd.5


I          Total             ~/ 2-Ji 7.r :61.0 ua I/DO. IJJ 66 l'l'I
                                                                                                     "~      '3,J.1. ldO         lf-7 ,.t-7 7//.- ,t! .?.t.l'i Voe              J:Z..     7 /9 (.r,).. 5t.1' /14.



I            Evaluation
        II-Balloon
                             ,\1,,1NL..1r.Nr 1 ,v
                                   Number
                                                          Ls   17/L-
                                                           Per Cent
                                                                              f:JP1&/IT£,t;, 7h',4),I /11,,_,,,
                                                                                   Number                Pe, C01t                Nuntier
                                                                                                                                         L ,.v,1:     ~AAA/

                                                                                                                                                       Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                VlJJ..J..&IP
                                                                                                                                                                               Number
                             Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Douhtfu
                                LJ-      t?     t/. S'tl        t,t) _f7,/    ;, ,2.11 39             f.'l      ' j lb I             I      t? )         ,,      1).0   ::i l       ,;    .I-/
                                                                                                                                                                                                    T#AK            M,,,,A/
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Pe, C01t
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                    'J    q .'3      7.1 1,.1

I       l•Astlonomical
        2-Ai1t1aft
        3-Li&ht Plumm.
                                tJ
                                t)
                                t?
                                        I
                                       tJ
                                        t)
                                                I t?.O JJl.3 llf.3 /P2 s-~ 1£1) 21.'5 If .I II-I L
                                                I) t).
                                                /)
                                                        (). {) M :i.:z. /kl M {? II ll 17.1
                                                       0,t     ao t?I)
                                                                jj /),()
                                                                               6         1      I/ II,          ,H       '14
                                                                                                                                    3
                                                                                                                                    f
                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                             9 I}.
                                                                                                                                            .2-
                                                                                                                                           ..i.
                                                                                                                                                         1' )3.1 21l
                                                                                                                                                    It) 2./,)
                                                                                                                                                     1' ,-.
                                                                                                                                                                 {J ~L~
                                                                                                                                                                 .( ~
                                                                                                                                                     () d(} t'O 10
                                                                                                                                                                         ,q I
                                                                                                                                                                                  £
                                                                                                                                                                                  3
                                                                                                                                                                                          I/
                                                                                                                                                                                          3
                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                  17 II ,I 1A.'/ 31,t
                                                                                                                                                                                                    I,
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ..l.
                                                                                                                                                                                                          5.1,
                                                                                                                                                                                                           /   ·'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5.6 11.:l.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     J_o, '2,lf
        4-Birds                  0 tJ           tJ    t?.o                      I       t)      I A.:           M A.3              I)       0                               I              I       ~       I~        I.'    ;i,'il



I       S-Cloud~ Dus~ et~
        6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
        l•Psycholo1ical
                               £}
                                t?
                                ()
                                        I
                                        ?'
                                        ?'
                                                I t?.O ll/;3 111,;
                                                0 P,I) 0. /) M
                                                I)    ~.I) tJ.() CJ.() 3
                                                                               tJ
                                                                              ;2../
                                                                                        0

                                                                                        0
                                                                                                ()
                                                                                        /J i./ t.5
                                                                                                      1.t
                                                                                           3 a.t at i,,f
                                                                                                               ~t) /).()
                                                                                                               t).0 .5.5
                                                                                                                                    tJ
                                                                                                                                    II
                                                                                                                                    I)
                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                            I)
                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                     t? /J,O /J,O tW tJ
                                                                                                                                                     rJ M tJ.() /).;) .3
                                                                                                                                                     I 1),0 .7..6 1 l 0
                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                          /)
                                                                                                                                                                                          .2-
                                                                                                                                                                                                    t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                    1 .'i.t
                                                                                                                                                                                                    j_
                                                                                                                                                                                                           dt

                                                                                                                                                                                                          {)t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     tJ.t AO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    t).t} S.L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Z.7 3.7
        S.Unknown               I       0        I /11-:J (),() /11(5 7/               t' 71 ff.~ M> JU                            1/ ' I}          II t'f,O, (),() lJ.'I I 11             t?     ltJ Jt.5          tJ.t, IU

I   I
        9-0the,


            Tot~
                                t)     0        ;, /J.t M M 9                          6 If 1,1 I.L 3,q                            I)       17       I) /).t /Atl (),p

                               s- ,z_ 7 7/.11 '-f.6 //Jtl. ;stJ /35 38'.5 li_f,q ~.,:. I 100 .l-11 /JI- Jf' IA,). 7C</ ltt», ..2.'I ..zr S-4 R? u,.g 1m.
                                                                                                                                                                           0              .3        q     (),t      -,,L 5,L




I                                Ji',4,:,,:~y

                                      Number
                                                     1/J. ,01,.,rr
                                                            Percent
                                                                                      ,11,,r
                                                                                    Number
                                                                                                     ('TAr~n

                                                                                                                                  Nunter                PerCeot                 Number               Pe,Cent
                                                                                                         PerC01t


I            Evaluation
        0-Balloon
        I-Astronomical
                             Certain Dlllbtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Domtful Total Certain D111btful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Douhtfu Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                 I
                                 I      ~
                                            I
                                                         aa J:i.S 2..3,2_ l,;J HJ. "·
                                                :i. J.2 j J,J,j 2$.0 159
                                                I /,2.5
                                                                                       '{j ?Ji.J
                                                                                    /.{,"/ f.q :1~.5
                                                                                                                •. 14-.'J
                                                                                                                   ~


        2-Aircraft               I       I       7 115 1,2,5 ,1,q "111 /3~ :JJ.I..~ /J 'I u
                                                         J,() /?() ,Z'l II J/J n tJ.6 '""
I       3-Li,t,tf'tlenom.
        4-Bilds
        5-Cloud~ Dust, et,
                                 I)
                                 tJ
                                 /)
                                        tJ
                                        t?
                                       I)
                                                 /} di)
                                                jJ
                                                ()
                                                      at
                                                      Ou
                                                                ()()  (}_()
                                                                {).j tJ(}
                                                                               It?
                                                                               .2-
                                                                                       £
                                                                                        LL
                                                                                                 :1,n
                                                                                               1h O.l ,U 1.0
                                                                                                6 (), &.J.              aa
                                                                                                                        ,,.,
        6-lnsuffic.lnfa.         ?     tJ       1 j_t_i) M :l!f.n l?J7~                tJ 7/JIJ JI .9 0.ll

I       7-Psychololical
        8-Unknown
        9-0ther
                                tP
                                 I
                                 t)
                                       tJ
                                       C!
                                       t?
                                                j   t},O 0.f) 120 ,2.9
                                                I IJ.5
                                                tJ
                                                         ao J~-5 9.IJ./1
                                                      ao 0.1) M 7~
                                                                                       3 3,2 I. J.1- 1,1
                                                                                       tJ 3µ1
                                                                                      II+
                                                                                                      if,0 ":JI. I
                                                                                                     ""'·'
                                                                                           '{£ 'f,J, ()      5.tJ-~
I           Total               t ,z_ &' 7ft; ;J...5. !; l1A1. 'illl() //-/5 /tfJ 71'j ,JI/. 1
                                                                                                                       '°'·
I
I
I
I
I                                                                                                            211

I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                         .4/t.1                    EV& &11/PAL                     ,;?F  t2$✓E4t:  S:(6HVA'<i S:                                   F"t?;(           Au.    VEllS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
  , Enlaatioa
0.11111111111
l·Aslamical
2-Aircraft
                     . ~ '",,Lt!'- NT ,,,,,


                     Cerbin Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                        .2..
                       /.Z
                         ?
                            Im-




                                L
                                 3
                                II
                                          5
                                                  PerCenl


                                                  :r:.

                                           'f II,:,
                                                          AA -
                                                                   .l!V
                                                                   ~-= ~l,l,1/,,L/l"~T d;f,' ,4,_l,},M✓AI/JM Sv/f/,,L/.L'ur l'/V l?ASTr"' .Jp,v,,Lflr::JJr t?IV

                                                            'Y.'/ 'Ii..:!
                                         :t3 /9,l /fj) :>.'1 .'1
                                                           7 ~ 14,.1 32
                                                                       7
                                                                                LIGHr




                                                                             'J'J
                                                                                    Number


                                                                                      17 IHI /,(.J

                                                                                      2'J
                                                                                          r u .f.'l
                                                                                                     .tfR/GPr.MESS


                                                                                                            Per Cent
                                                                            ertain Dooblful Total Certain lloulltful Tobi cernin lloulltful Total Certain Dooblful Total Celfain Doobllul Total Certain Doobllul Tot~

                                                                                                                'll- 1~4-i
                                                                                                                1-5 u
                                                                                                Sl ln-9 15-1 !:H.0
                                                                                                                                 Number


                                                                                                                                    II

                                                                                                                                    £
                                                                                                                                     'l     I
                                                                                                                                             7

                                                                                                                                           /ti
                                                                                                                                                         Percent

                                                                                                                                                   If lf.' /J.() ;JS,?
                                                                                                                                                   II 12.~ .1.'1 /5.i
                                                                                                                                                   /6 $'.1 I If. i 1"'1'1'1
                                                                                                                                                                                     :L
                                                                                                                                                                                     ()
                                                                                                                                                                                     /J
                                                                                                                                                                                          - I
                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                            '1
                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                   3
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Per Cent


                                                                                                                                                                                                  3 l:LJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                           /J./,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SrtJIYE



                                                                                                                                                                                                                    f-1 d-7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     D.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6,2
                                                                                                                                                                                                          t?-0 If.¥ 1/U
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
Hidill'llenoo.           I       IJ        I I J.           tJ.O /./,, 0                  3       3 tJ.t I .1 1.7                    tJ     I        I    I,{,    n         1.4      ~     0       ~      t?-P      M tJ.t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
     _
4-Bi«ls                 0        tJ        {)     {J.()    t?./) t?,()  I                 I      ;;.. 11., 1/./, I.a                t}      I        I    tJ./}   /.'J     1.4       I)    I        I !J.O I,). 0
S-Cloods, Dus~ et~      0        0         0 fJ.t          M tJ.t I                       t}      I 11./, t?.t d.6                  tJ     .z       2     OJ 1.1           2.'I      L)   0        tJ tJ,t 1),0 O.t
6-lnsuffic.1111,.       -~       0         3 -+''I /),() 4.'I /J                       Cl       IS 't!I t1.f) $,4                   q      tJ       If /J,q       (),()   ,a.'I      I    /l        I 6.J ,M) /',7



-
..
7-Psydlolo&ical




     Toll!
                       .2.
                      Ill- 0
                        J
                                  I

                                 2_



                     /f.L 19 £/ 61,q
                                           3 .1.1 II. 4.'I 2-
                                          Ill 'l,( /J P.l a1.o ;LY
                                           3 I I, :/A .S..'1 6'

                                                           .1/.J IM.
                                                                                      ...2..
                                                                                      j
                                                                                          ,t)
                                                                                                  tf J. I
                                                                                                ;z.9 Id
                                                                                                 8' .1.'J
                                                                                                                /.
                                                                                                                /),/)
                                                                                                                I./ 4~
                                                                                                                         2.2
                                                                                                                         I.<~
                                                                                                                                    tJ
                                                                                                                                    II


                                                                            //9 I, tJ /79 t.U :12., 114/J. //J .n 7~ ~7./ f1,'j 114d.
                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                           Cl
                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                           t)
                                                                                                                                                    t7
                                                                                                                                                   II If.'
                                                                                                                                                    J / .1
                                                                                                                                                           A.I.
                                                                                                                                                                  M IS.'1
                                                                                                                                                                  M
                                                                                                                                                                   O.t      f)./)


                                                                                                                                                                            1.4
                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                     _5

                                                                                                                                                                                     L
                                                                                                                                                                                    /{}
                                                                                                                                                                                           C
                                                                                                                                                                                           ,::J
                                                                                                                                                                                          ,t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                   tJ 0,P ;J. /) (}.I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                   S' 3/,:1. 0.0 31,1
                                                                                                                                                                                                  .2 12,5

                                                                                                                                                                                            I, I,{ 1£2., 37,5 //)t),
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IU h.f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
      Evaluation
                     $11w,_1t:HT
                               Number
                                          /JAi     ,)'1VJ..
                                                   Per Cent
                                                                             ,..,
                                                                              Number
                                                                                      ~ -    ,,,,.,,,✓ MtJOA/
                                                                                                    Per Cent
                                                                                                                            / /kl:"
                                                                                                                           Nulll>er
                                                                                                                                          Mt11JN
                                                                                                                                                 Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                  /Jvt-t..t:o T,~JA, M/7/:J..✓
                                                                                                                                                                        Nullller               Per Cent
                     Certain Dooblful Total Certain lloulllfu I Total Certain Doimlful Total Certain DmblfuI Total ~ertain Dooblful Total Certain Doubtful Total c..tin lloulltfu Total Certain Doobttd Toll!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I.
0.11111....            4-      t)       4 ,ft:') t!() IO /If }'_/ 35 q                                  L~ /11.S        I       tJ          .J.'     I         M ~-'1       3        s             1
                                                                                                                                                                                         ltJ.1. C./ /'-3
l•AS1Junollical
2·Aircraft
3-Lidill'IHnom.
                        t)
                        tJ
                        tJ ,t)
                                  I
                                 t?
                                           I M /0 11.7
                                           /)
                                           /)
                                                  t)j)
                                                  M   M N>
                                                           11.I)

                                           j tJ.() t2rJ O,t)
                                                                    M
                                                                             ,r-7 If.!' /3/) .t//.6
                                                                             ~   If-I
                                                                               6 3
                                                                                                          N./1 I3'1.11
                                                                                                /, I &.t IJ.. 11r.3
                                                                                                  9 l.f ,, . q :J..7
                                                                                                                                    3
                                                                                                                                     s
                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                             8"
                                                                                                                                            2.
                                                                                                                                            .2..
                                                                                                                                                    I/

                                                                                                                                                    3 1.1
                                                                                                                                                          (!i,sv; '""'I
                                                                                                                                                     7 /'/.? 5-1 l:i.o.?
                                                                                                                                                                   5,q     u·
                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                     3
                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                           3
                                                                                                                                                                                            f(


                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ii/.
                                                                                                                                                                                                   p
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ;z..
                                                                                                                                                                                                          /).J /f.1 .Jt:.~
                                                                                                                                                                                                          (..}
                                                                                                                                                                                                          2.,(J
                                                                                                                                                                                                           I,{,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I.. I ,~.!I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.0 u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
4-Bi«ls                 {} L/                                                  I   t?              I d-~ O,P 1.3                     tl     {}      0 ,l.t;)       /)_/) /J.I        ;J     I       I               1 0 2.0
S-Clouds, Dus~ et~
6-lnsuffic.tlfo.
l•Psycilololical
                        C I
                        /)
                        /J
                                {}
                               tJ
                                            I 40 11.7 16,7 ~
                                           t) 4t hJ /;).() .7;;
                                           tJ tf.t //.~ tJ/) .2_
                                                                                           tJ
                                                                                          tJ
                                                                                          tJ
                                                                                                 /J t?I t7.() tJ,tJ
                                                                                                2.0 C./J t),0 ,.o
                                                                                                 7.. tJ.t tJ.tJ 11.L
                                                                                                                                     t?
                                                                                                                                     /J
                                                                                                                                     tJ
                                                                                                                                            /J
                                                                                                                                           t)
                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                    tJ
                                                                                                                                                    /;)
                                                                                                                                                          t.t
                                                                                                                                                          /,I}
                                                                                                                                                                  f}.tJ /J./J
                                                                                                                                                                  t}tJ
                                                                                                                                                    I t?.t _1,q .a.'! tJ 2-
                                                                                                                                                                           M
                                                                                                                                                                                     IJ
                                                                                                                                                                                     3
                                                                                                                                                                                           t)
                                                                                                                                                                                          L)
                                                                                                                                                                                                  t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                   3
                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,,Z.
                                                                                                                                                                                                          t?o
                                                                                                                                                                                                          6-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                          /J.t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    tJ.O   ,11)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    t/,t &.,I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    'f.! 11-.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
8-Unkno•                // IJ             /)  tJ.tJ /7.tJ 0,t 1/                          t)    t51 lf,J       /},{) Jf,1          II       tJ     II ~1.~ 41, '3, ,I. /tJ /J                     //)     1,d       /J.t :J.M
9-0lller


     Total
                         I,

                       J/-
                                t?

                                .2.      ~
                                          I}   (;).t tJ;; J.?,I, 9                        £' I, 1,1 IJ 4'.S
                                                 It., 53,~ /tJtJ 2/5 II'/ :3311 Cf.1 15./, JOI). .ZI 13 Jl-f ti
                                                                                                                                     t)    tJ      rJ /,P M ~/;) t) 3                               -q

                                                                                                                                                                  d ..1 ;tJa :J% :LI 11-9 ff./ 112.'I IMd.
                                                                                                                                                                                                           J.t      t./ t.l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
      Evaluation
0.B~loon
1-AsbOll:lmical
                      /?~o,=LV



                         I
                         I
                             Nullller



                                 {}
                                     I
                                                 //,:,,,..,,LE
                                                   Percent

                                          J._ /11,J /.P.J :2!6 /J./-p 79 1jt? qi
                                                                                    -
                                                                                    A/4r


                                            I /I;;~ ~tJ /1./3 I.S-JJ I If?" 7'7? IA 1
                                                                                                   '·r~ r.t=/7
                                                                                                      PeJCent
                     Certain Dooblful Total Certain lloulllfu I Total Certain lloulltful Total Certain Dmblful Total
                                                                                                                ,;'j
                                                                                                               '/.J
                                                                                                                         1.s::i
                                                                                                                         /1(,q
                                                                                                                                          Nulltler              Per Cent               Number               Per Call
                                                                                                                                   ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Cerbin Doublfu Total certain Doublful Total

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                               g',j -:us
2-Ai,aaH                 I        I       2 /.#,--< l/-'/43 lli,I, /9/ /21) 3/1 11.1
                                                                                                                         ~,
3-Lidill'llmoa.
I-Birds
S-Cloud~ Dust, el~
                        ,:;
                        0
                        ~
                                 0
                                 0
                                  t)
                                          rJ t.t tJ.tJ d.l) 1 J          t :Z.'! I.~
                                           {) tJ.tJ £1.t) tJ.tJ /{) /, ·16 IJ.'
                                           /) O.t V./J t>./J        2.   ,I/.  6 ,1.
                                                                                                                tJ ,,:
                                                                                                               c11 /.J
                                                                                                               ,P A.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
6-lnsuffic.•11>.        I        {}         I 111,3 t>.O /lr,3 /'{If /) ;rg                          a.o        10 /3.0
l•Psycilololical
8-Unlmo•
9-0tller
                        0
                        I
                        !?      ~
                                 {)
                                 /)
                                           tJ M ()./;) t.(} 29           3 32 2.,l
                                           I IJl.3 /.0 )lf-3 .29~ tJ ~9, 11/l.
                                          tJ     1),0      t>.o /).0 38
                                                                                                               tJ.1.
                                                                                                      /l.O :i.o.~
                                                                                          II 77 'f./. i:U 5.4
                                                                                                                          ,,   ~



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
     Toll!              ~        .:L      7 71.1/- J..U It¼:?. ltJ?JI .31/7 Ill/#.~ 7-s'.l .zJ/.J 110,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                            212
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
I
I
I                                 Number
                                             d~//1{/.LlP,/
                                                           Per Cent
                                                                        C/?,e            ALL

                                                                                       Number
                                                                                                     S/C. "1r/AU!~
                                                                                               FE=li', t/"""
                                                                                                           Percent
                                                                                                                              ,I


                                                                                                                                         Number
                                                                                                                                                         -4LL
                                                                                                                                                           M. ;!UI
                                                                                                                                                                   </EAL'S

                                                                                                                                                                     Percent
                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,

                                                                                                                                                                                               Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                             1/17~/L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Percent


I    I).

        l·tN I' aa
     2-ouroaollc;
                         Const


                            JI,
                          ::J.9
                                  Variable Total




                                      ~
                                        J J'l JJ.y
                                          JJ V..J
                                                      Const Variable Total


                                                               ,M J.J.5
                                                               ,U .,,,n 13
                                                                                Const -Variable Total Const Variable Total




                                                                                   " I        :2,    //      9.1
                                                                                                    )J/ J."t'J
                                                                                                                    ~-2. //5
                                                                                                                    /.I     ~1(0
                                                                                                                                   Const Variable Total


                                                                                                                                      IJ
                                                                                                                                     ,!.7.
                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                   j_
                                                                                                                                                           /}
                                                                                                                                                                Const Variable Total


                                                                                                                                                                 LA
                                                                                                                                                          6J./ .JJ.j     "·"      ~-(
                                                                                                                                                                         /,:l, 31.6
                                                                                                                                                                                         Const Variable Total


                                                                                                                                                                                           21/
                                                                                                                                                                                          'f/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                       .J .27 J,J. tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                       "'I ?'I '1/5,()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Const     Variable Total


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /.S 11,,;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  J,D ~l)


I    3-11\1 Pl l>cNC
     l•IN A\..DG.
     $-

     6-
                           9)
                           17
                                      J.. .'?3 ?:J)/
                                      I)       17 JJ.5
                                                               /.5 )¥.3 .2?
                                                               tJ. /J ,.u         .2,
                                                                                              0
                                                                                              0
                                                                                                     ~7 ,-'1./J    /J.~
                                                                                                      .i... '11 d.tJ ,!.1
                                                                                                                           '-'f./J 1b
                                                                                                                                     1..1
                                                                                                                                                   ~
                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                          ~     l).b
                                                                                                                                                          1-?. 13.J
                                                                                                                                                                         M ,;,0 It
                                                                                                                                                                         M) 13.3          :J./J
                                                                                                                                                                                                       I)   I•
                                                                                                                                                                                                       () ,u, /1,/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       f./J      .tJ,D     l.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0,() //J,b




I    1-
     8-
     9-l'>TMlil!.           j          0       :J .,?.,1.      M J ..2              5         0      .f     5.'I    tJ.b .;_If         J          0 g            n tJ.() .N                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                       "A 1/J0 l.u.5 d.D ::J./,5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       All
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           "·"     L)_t)
    Ni>T ~no              33
                                      "7131 M.9 5.1
                                              33 :in           1),/J l.H(J       .:z.Y        ()    )If 25.~       IJ.tJ M"/1 t't                 0 7'J !:J '/.?         ().~ 121.1       //3

I   ~                   /,,J'/                                         ld4,      9o           :ff   99 r;u         .'{2, IJ~.      1£3          ..J 166 'II.;..          /.(' ltJ/J, lf.J              7 ~I() '11.5 ,.5 /1)4,




I   l
    '
    ,I).
                        Const
                                  Number
                                  Variable
                                               M,N

                                              Total
                                                            Per Cent
                                                      Const Variable Total Const
                                                                                          Number
                                                                                         ·1ariable Total
                                                                                                           ·,w~
                                                                                                                 Per Cent
                                                                                                           Const Variable Total    Const
                                                                                                                                               Number
                                                                                                                                              Variable
                                                                                                                                                           J'/Ll/
                                                                                                                                                                     Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                         Total Const Variable Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                Number
                                                                                                                                                                                         Const Variable
                                                                                                                                                                                                            At16tlST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PerCmt
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Total Const Variable Total




I       l•/rt ('IJ It
    2-)l)TnAell<;
    l·tt1 P/.IIN/;.
                            N
                          x"I
                          31/
                                       I)
                                      5 ff ,W.9
                                                II

                                       () 3.Y 11.5
                                                       7.7
                                                               ' °"   1.7 :JI
                                                              1.1. [#),; 113
                                                              0,/J /Vi .:l,
                                                                                              .:i.14 9...,
                                                                                              3 /1L 1,,2Q
                                                                                              0 :J.15 111.0
                                                                                                                    t1li
                                                                                                                    /.'?
                                                                                                                    ()tl
                                                                                                                            /,1
                                                                                                                            -«, "/.U,
                                                                                                                           IU       n
                                                                                                                                      7.L         /J.  ii/ 7.<l u q,/ ti
                                                                                                                                                  J./1/Yd //L.9 l),A/ 'f7.~ JU
                                                                                                                                                   I M q,. ,1,}              37
                                                                                                                                                                                   ~-'
                                                                                                                                                                                                        3 ,1 11.1 d.~ ,.:l.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                       9 ').7'( ;/,/ /.~ 5~./,
                                                                                                                                                                                                       2 3'I '7.1 o.~ 'J.<,
    4-tN R/.. DG..          r          ()  1 '/./             /J.,/) If.I  f'                 0       p :3.5 tJ./J .3'i'            17            .J 94 9,1./ • tJ,:i 9.7 31                           I{ 'Yl.   7.3 0,'1 V

I   1$-

     6-
     1-
    lg.


I   9- l'lTU!eF
    'NO i S'T»Tfn
           Total
                           J,,
                          ,Y/
                        /fl'!
                                       /J .1 1.11
                                       o "fl '.l},J
                                      5 If'/ q'),11
                                                               ~.11     /./)
                                                              ,1,{) :ii.I
                                                              ~.I, /()4, :U'-?
                                                                                  2
                                                                                 ~w
                                                                                             r,
                                                                                             Q
                                                                                                  :;., (J,9 tJ.tJ ,.,_q 15
                                                                                                -¥1' 193 (),{) fl,3 ll/
                                                                                             5 211 97.'l ;l,:Z.. JOO, 9o9
                                                                                                                                                   ()     /5

                                                                                                                                                  () '1.2..'I
                                                                                                                                                ).,J
                                                                                                                                                                 I.J.

                                                                                                                                                         "' 17.1 .'tl.
                                                                                                                                                                ~;1..7
                                                                                                                                                                         ()/)
                                                                                                                                                                         o.lJ .12.l
                                                                                                                                                                                   1.6

                                                                                                                                                                                 100,
                                                                                                                                                                                           8
                                                                                                                                                                                          qi/
                                                                                                                                                                                                       61
                                                                                                                                                                                                       D
                                                                                                                                                                                         50'1 17 5)./ 't'-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                             1 //i
                                                                                                                                                                                                            °'"       J</.IJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   {).~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A,ll
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3,.1 /44,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           l~.IJ



I                                       S£!7Ti:"?d£~                                                Oero;1£,e,                                          /V,r,u,=M.iG .I'                                  /)£>!EMl!?GR
                                  Number               Pe, Cent                           Number                 PerCSlt                       Number              Per Cent              Number                         PerCalt


I   !
    10.
     1· /N r_A fl
                        Const


                          J/
                                  Variable Total Const Variable Total Const


                                      .2.     1J       IAA      1./J    //./)    13
                                                                                         Variable Total


                                                                                               I
                                                                                                           Const Variable Total Const


                                                                                                     ?.'/ ll.l      /)~    JJ,!i     JI)
                                                                                                                                              Variable Total Const Variable Total Const Variable


                                                                                                                                                   .If    Pl     If,,/   .J.',     f5     ,2,5         -1
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Total Const Variable Total


                                                                                                                                                                                                             .l'..1    JJ/9        -Y..2 ff.I
    2-0 u-rnooRs          91,         5 I/JI "15.7 1.'I "If I BY                               I    90 ',(// o,5 '16.9               ,¥.S          J 1/9 ;17.4' l.f J9..• .Y5                         5     50 '//(               3.~ 2'1.i
I   l·/N DJ "11"'
    .,,111 ~1.nr.:..
    $-
                          )6
                           JI
                                      0
                                      2.. /j
                                              .u: I.VI tJ.d /?/,
                                                       5.1.    I.()     t.2 ~'i
                                                                                 ;'!          ()

                                                                                               I
                                                                                                    ).'i Pl./ All l'I./
                                                                                                    ).j IJ. IJ M 13.,;
                                                                                                                                     ',!,lJ

                                                                                                                                     13
                                                                                                                                                   tJ .W J),7 0,,1
                                                                                                                                                   tJ     33 ~.I IJ.d 1d.l N
                                                                                                                                                                                  ,M       1/5        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                       t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                            .Yt .1L.l
                                                                                                                                                                                                            /I/ 1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   11.I. .11.I/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A~      H
    6-


I   1·
    8-
    9-CJTl+r::e              I        0 I A,'i'                11,JJ    Al(        'J        ~  7 .,.,              0.0 3.'           2,          6        1   1.2.      ,1.~      /1       I          t)       I      di.         ,:It)   d.l.
                                                                                                                                                         .?] ;.,.,

I   NOT <:T'ltT'Eh
           Total
                          ,yt
                        )./)/
                                      0 . 'It. 121.9
                                     9 )./() 95.'I
                                                               /),I. 1/,'I
                                                              1{3 It!,
                                                                                 J</
                                                                                119
                                                                                             O If 9,'I
                                                                                             .3 J9). ff.II          ,.~
                                                                                                                    o.o V.'I
                                                                                                                           /b/J, 1157
                                                                                                                                     33            t)          J.b .l,l I ;.s
                                                                                                                                                  7 /•3/ 95.7 J/.3 ~db, /.!5
                                                                                                                                                                                                       0    ,J,5 1,Y:P
                                                                                                                                                                                                      /J 1/LF ~.J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   11,t, /'/.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '/.7 l'J/A,



I
I
I
I
I                                                                                                                  213

I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                        1//&e         ,11.p

                                        JI/ ill tl#RV
                                   ftJmber                        Per Cent                    Number
                                                                                                          Pe.6£,MR'I
                                                                                                                           Per Cent
                                                                                                                                           ,,
                                                                                                                                                        /JU-t'ft1/C.


                                                                                                                                                        Number
                                                                                                                                                                 MARNI
                                                                                                                                                                                Sf/411t:tf1IGS


                                                                                                                                                                          Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .fl[(



                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Nt7AtVI S:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A l'/IL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
0-
 I· IN I', ll ll
 z.,,,..,..n,.,,oc
                         Const    Variable Total      Const Variable Total


                                                                      -
                                                                  ,/ 'C'
                                                                                        Const Variable Total          Const Variable Total




                                                                                                                               V'-
                                                                                                                                                Const Variable Total Const Variable Total




                                                                                                                                                                                .I..'
                                                                                                                                                                                       ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Const Variable Total    Const Yariable Tot~



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                            .\                                                                                                              ,,,.,
3-/N DlllNC
1-/1\l ALDG:,
5-
                                                      K"\
                                                       )I
                                                                                                                       -"
                                                                                                                      ~,
                                                                                                                      '){
                                                                                                                                                                             ~

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -'<'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '\J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '\ '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
6-
 1-
 8-
                                            "
                                            ,"
                                                                                                      . .\.C\.....
                                                                                                             ,
                                                                                                                                                               .~\
                                                                                                                                                                     \\

                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '"~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              \ ,)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
 9-A-r-UC f2

'MliT 5TR-rED

-     Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
0-
                         Const
                                  Number
                                            MA

                                  Variable Total Const
                                                                  Per Cent
                                                                   Variable Total Const
                                                                                                Number
                                                                                                ·1ariable Total
                                                                                                                 .f IA/£
                                                                                                                            Per Cent              Nunmer
                                                                                                                                                            JvLI/"
                                                                                                                                                                      ~er Cent              Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                     llt1Gtl<I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                PerCmt
                                                                                                                      Const Variable Total Coos! Variable Total Const Variable Total Const Variable Total Const Variable Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
 1·/N f'Alf!
z.,,,1r oool!S
l-/N PLANE                                                 ..,(
                                                                   b-..
                                                                     '                     '
                                                                                           3
                                                                                            I

                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                      I          ~     7:,
                                                                                                                 I. ?t'..i
                                                                                                                 .J 7-3.)
                                                                                                                                 '1? l~.J,
                                                                                                                                 11 II l'lt.~
                                                                                                                                 1111 23.1
                                                                                                                                                 J.7
                                                                                                                                                 II
                                                                                                                                                   i,       I)
                                                                                                                                                            t)
                                                                                                                                                            IJ
                                                                                                                                                                       I,
                                                                                                                                                                     j,'J
                                                                                                                                                                     II
                                                                                                                                                                             IA,9
                                                                                                                                                                             If/.
                                                                                                                                                                             ?A,I
                                                                                                                                                                                          h.0 JI).<(
                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0 ~'I.I
                                                                                                                                                                                         tJ.fl ,ll./J
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,.~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 j
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2- tJ.S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7 /./1':J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -~ ,f.~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A.0 J.7..5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /J./J '/.?//
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /l./l   JqS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
4-IN Rl ""-•                                           "-.                                 ()        /J          I'    t.l.      l!tl n.tJ         I        ()         )      1_<;       IJ,O                    I       ()       J     t.5 1).0 l,.'1
5-
6-
7.                                     ~ I\.,
                                                "·''  JI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
8-                                   ~1'
9- OTHEf
Naf" =rEn
  Tot~
                                                                                          0
                                                                                          2.
                                                                                        /,2.
                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                    I 13 r,J.'
                                                                                                                 (J     OJ.
                                                                                                                 ,,_ 11.1,
                                                                                                                                 ,H
                                                                                                                                  IJ.l /5!
                                                                                                                                          A

                                                                                                                                 '1.'} IPIJ,
                                                                                                                                                 J/1

                                                                                                                                                55
                                                                                                                                                  ()        ()

                                                                                                                                                           " ,r,r ~M.O
                                                                                                                                                           /)
                                                                                                                                                                      ()      nil /).{) /),/)
                                                                                                                                                                     Ji 1t2- ,1.{) Jt!l
                                                                                                                                                                                         /J.() "bb.           16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               t) 0.D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3 J'/.'I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        n /6 v,,,.n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,U
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ().I) J<J.11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /l./J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           b.b

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         oo.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                    S1£pr,:ud1::P
                                  Number           Per Cent             Nuriler
                                                                                 /J,-,r/Jd,€,1'
                                                                                              Pe,C"'t               Nutmer
                                                                                                                            Alt1v1: M/JIER
                                                                                                                                         Pei Cent              Number
                                                                                                                                                                      /)£,,!EMQ,/[R
                                                                                                                                                                                   Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
0-
l·1N C:.Al2.
2-,.,., -r n A.oc
                        Coos! Variable Total Const Variable Total Const Variable Total Const


                            0
                            3         " .s,:; St'-0 d./J
                                      n
                                                           I>            A,     ,l)I
                                                                              ,,,_.,.
                                                                                          (/
                                                                                          R
                                                                                               Variable


                                                                                                    {)
                                                                                                    ()
                                                                                                        Tota Const Variable


                                                                                                                 9 #).I
                                                                                                                 9 J{2,J
                                                                                                                             Total Const Variable Total Coos! Variable Total Const Variable Tota


                                                                                                                                 /1.~   lb./
                                                                                                                                 fl.D 11.1
                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                  ()       0
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                       I 333
                                                                                                                                                                               111        o.O
                                                                                                                                                                                              (),/J   33.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                       /)J.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       'JM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        'llll.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  o.O ~7111
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.d ,111
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
l-1N
4-IN Ill nG,.
5-
             PI-A",'c       I
                            11
                                      ()
                                      d
                                                 I /6.'j
                                                ()     ,1p
                                                                     tP.t /£.'}
                                                                     IJ.l /).!,
                                                                                           /J
                                                                                           l
                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                 0 tH
                                                                                                                        rJ.d     0.1 b.l>
                                                                                                                                 OJ (),1)
                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                            ~
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                               /J./:
                                                                                                                                                                             2~:1
                                                                                                                                                                                          0~ 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                          OIJ n.~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                '?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ~I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A 11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          f.bJ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ll d    I
6-
7.
8-
9- ar11Ee                   l)        0         a      () I,         llA       /I;        n          0           0 M             b.()    0-~       I       0           I 33.3                 M .ni             0       0      0        O.D      tJ.D     <).{)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
N<li=o                     ;J..       /"i       !')   ?,1.J          1)./J :/:?..~        3         0            3 15!1          I).~   /1.'l     0        0          0 ()J)              (J.O o.o              ()      0      0        00       ao O.t
      Tot~

                           '          (J        I, t){),l\           1'~ ll1,L           19         D       ,q 1/Jb.C M 100.                      3        0          31140-ll            {J.0 oO.             .5       0      _., /o/J.O        IJ.{) IOIJ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                               214
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
I
I
I                            _i;



                                        Number
                                                  J/JIV""""
                                                               Perl!mt
                                                                       ,:,,,,,           LI//.



                                                                                               Number
                                                                                                          fa£/6'"'"/?.""
                                                                                                                           -
                                                                                                                    Per Cent
                                                                                                                                   ,   ~



                                                                                                                                            /



                                                                                                                                                         Number
                                                                                                                                                                       /(J,dJ;'

                                                                                                                                                                         /1,'A_Rt:#

                                                                                                                                                                                   Per Cent                  Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,t/,P,(JL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Per Cent
                                                                                      Const Variable Total Const Variable Total                    Const Variable Total       Const Variable Total     Const Variable Total             Variable Total


I
                            Const       Variable Total    Coost Variable Total                                                                                                                                                 Const




                                                                              ,,.. b
    I).

    l• /H ,,.,,. fl             I            /J      I      ,.3     M                    ()         ()      D tJ.I. 0.0 ()J)                           ()       0        C)o./J        0,/) 11.ll         C       0       0 O.t              11n c,.l
    z.                         I             CJ      I L.3          ()./)                           0       b bbi o.O 1.1..1                          ~L        0        l ~J          111\ ,~'l         /'1      /l     JI\ 77/1            O.b '11.C/
                                                                                                            I II.I c.c /I. I                                                                                              3 ''-'             n.lJ ,,.1
I   3-/N OlRrll;;
    4·/N ~Ln"-.
    s-
    &,
                               3
                               ,;            ' 5Ii
                                             0
                                                           J(l,q
                                                          :-11.J
                                                                   n.5 :11.:
                                                                   0.0 313
                                                                                          I         0
                                                                                                    0       I 11.1 0.0 11.I
                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                         I II.I
                                                                                                                                                                         I II.I o.O U.I
                                                                                                                                                                                       1'.(l   J/. I      3
                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (']      I 5.6             o.D 5.,



I   7.
    8-
     9-QTl.l&:P                 0            0      0      t)./)    ().0       01        (J         (')     0
                                                                                                                    ,,.o, ().0
                                                                                                                          (}0 0.()                   t)         (l      0       /JA    0./l    no         II      0       0     M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /J.D /1()
    ,,.,,.,...c,r,,-,,::n     I/             0      Ji ~.l    "'~  O.b                   I          0         I                JI.I 5                           0       5 55., ().{) 55.t                ()       C       0                  o.£ ~-ll

I         Total              /I{            1, JI, ~/.2 18.1 100.                       q           0       q IJoO.n o.o 100,                        q          /'J     9 /OM 0-" )Ob.                  I</       0 l'l 116M                 /l.11 100.




I   I).
                            Const
                                        Number
                                                  /'111
                                                             Per Cent
                                        Variable Total Const Variable        Total Const
                                                                                                Number
                                                                                                            ilvJI/£

                                                                                               ·1ariable Total
                                                                                                                           Per Cent
                                                                                                                   Const Variable Total Const
                                                                                                                                                             Nunj)er
                                                                                                                                                                         Jt/L<I
                                                                                                                                                                                 Per Cent              Number
                                                                                                                                                            Variable Total Const Variable Total Const Variable
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A//6t/5r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Total Const Variable Total




I   1-m t"JJP
    2· - - .oc
    3•JN 0/LJ.Nr:
    4-Jl'J OJ nC:.             0
                                ,;'


                                "
                                    I       0
                                            0
                                            0
                                            0
                                                     I q_J
                                                    5' ;JH
                                                    1-1 '!J..I{
                                                    ()     O.fJ
                                                                    tJ.i)
                                                                    AA
                                                                               9./
                                                                            '/.(.~
                                                                    ll./) JI. 'I
                                                                    IJ.B A!J
                                                                                         <
                                                                                          I

                                                                                         ll
                                                                                        ()
                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                    ()
                                                                                                    C
                                                                                                    C
                                                                                                             I Jl,.7
                                                                                                            ,:; w
                                                                                                            ()
                                                                                                            I'.)
                                                                                                                     ~.o
                                                                                                                    0.
                                                                                                                                ,1/l
                                                                                                                                /l/l
                                                                                                                               /J.O
                                                                                                                               o.c r1.t
                                                                                                                                       /6.7
                                                                                                                                       13.
                                                                                                                                           ,1
                                                                                                                                                      3
                                                                                                                                                     11
                                                                                                                                                      5
                                                                                                                                                      9
                                                                                                                                                                ,1




                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                ()
                                                                                                                                                                         3      'l7
                                                                                                                                                                        /'it 1/3.i
                                                                                                                                                                                       11.D 'l.?
                                                                                                                                                                                       2.I, if'-2
                                                                                                                                                                         5 11.'J ll.O llfl
                                                                                                                                                                         q fl.I 0./J 1.3.I
                                                                                                                                                                                                          j
                                                                                                                                                                                                          </
                                                                                                                                                                                                          6
                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -~




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  "' C /l.l /J.I /J.I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            J.'/.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          q Zl.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 () I.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             t1.1J 7'7.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /J,I


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /J,O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     'IJ.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /l/J

I   s-
    &,
    7.
    g.



I   9-0Tp~J?
    'Nt,T<'Tar;n
          Total
                               0

                               II
                                 I
                                            0

                                            0
                                             C
                                                    0
                                                     I (J./
                                                   II l()d,0
                                                            b.D    0.0 11.0
                                                                   o.l q,/
                                                                   IJ.0 Ob.
                                                                                        0
                                                                                        D
                                                                                        h          0
                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                    D
                                                                                                            0 O.D
                                                                                                            /)
                                                                                                            I, IOM
                                                                                                                    0./)
                                                                                                                               ().C
                                                                                                                               ().()
                                                                                                                               O.D IJtr/.
                                                                                                                                           (},/)
                                                                                                                                           M
                                                                                                                                                   Ji
                                                                                                                                                     3
                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                0        I tJL 1.1, 0
                                                                                                                                                                       ?.? 0.0 '1.1 0
                                                                                                                                                                         J
                                                                                                                                                                               ;J,/,

                                                                                                                                                                I ?q 'IV{ 1.i lbO. JI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0 0 rte
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          fl

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0 II 11/1/\.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 n.O          ~./_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ().l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0./J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      rJ.lJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              o.L //JO,

I                                       Number
                                              Sel'r1=.,.,,~,
                                                                Per Cent                        Number
                                                                                                          Ot1, oL?,;:1?
                                                                                                                           Pe,Co,t                           Nuntier
                                                                                                                                                                       A/o;'&M4e~
                                                                                                                                                                                 Per Cent              Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0£/!r~.-,,.,..Jl!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Per Cent



I   I).

    l·JN NJR
                  - ..,,.
                            Const


                                I)
                                        Variable Total


                                             ()     0
                                                          Const Variable Total Co""t


                                                            /J,     ,1)\      /V         '1.
                                                                                               Variable Total


                                                                                                    0      :.,
                                                                                                                   Const Variable Total Const


                                                                                                                    I.~         I!./) t..7            /J
                                                                                                                                                            Variable Total Const Variable Total Const Variable


                                                                                                                                                                 I        f     1111    ,:/     r.(J      I,      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Total Const Variable Total


                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7 1/.t.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ~-'     J.li.O
    2·
                                'I 0
                                             (\     -~ I.J.~       "~ 13
                                                                   /Ill                              I    JJ/ Jf.V              J,l ){1,,/J
                                                                                                                                                      ,,
                                                                                                                                                      '.i          I     q il/J.O      .'i.O 1/5.0       JO       I     II 35!               3.6 3t3

I   3•JN OLIJNf'.

    4-JN Rl '"'"-.
    s-
    &,
                               I'.)         ll
                                                     I 11.t, ,1,/J /1..
                                                    l'1 t?J)       /).I'     ,1.6
                                                                                  ~     -~

                                                                                        "          0
                                                                                                    ()     .'3 IIJ.0
                                                                                                            t  7/'
                                                                                                                                Q.D I/J.0
                                                                                                                                /1/ 2,.1              J/
                                                                                                                                                                {]
                                                                                                                                                                l'1
                                                                                                                                                                         ~    2!5.0
                                                                                                                                                                         /./ lll.l
                                                                                                                                                                                        IJ.b 25.0
                                                                                                                                                                                       11.0 111.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                          7
                                                                                                                                                                                                         l-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ?     t5,l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          :.., 7.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             o.D JJ50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             fJ.I     ry,/




I   7.
    8-
    9- J')TZJ~P                t)           0        0 dJ.         0.1.l      All        I          0        I       :/         d/J        .,~        0         0        0 ~-0          0.0 O.b          0        0      0       0.0         o.o r),0
                               ;},          J')     l2.- "l5.l     J')}\    , ;; 1      2-          0      2,       t..1        11.£ l,.'l            I         0        I 5./J         OD ·"-"           I      0        I                   O.l 3./,

I         Total             . <;            d       I;? 1170.t     ,1_() JIJ{).       ).'1          I .10 (J/,.7               .1.3 !AO.            J?:         :,... '10 J/b-0 ltM 140.               .16       .1. -,q 9.:L,q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -~-"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '1./ }di).




I
I
I
I
I                                                                                                                          215

I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                      Number
                                              JANI/ LJ A , ,
                                                                 Fi.

                                                           /PerCmt
                                                                                   ,,,,
                                                                                         Number
                                                                                                          ,         - -~ ,
                                                                                                       Cc,12,;,,,,,-,</
                                                                                                                         Percent                    Number
                                                                                                                                                                       I.
                                                                                                                                                                            M     ,e,1;;
                                                                                                                                                                                       Per Cent                      Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ANtl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
 0-
 1-,N rail
 2·/\ - ·
                         Consl




                    -- ;</
                             fl
                                     Variable Total


                                          I
                                         /)    If 30.5
                                                      Const Variable Total


                                                q /3.I,         I.? J5.3
                                                               Ob         ://),•
                                                                                   Const Vari.able Total


                                                                                     .'?
                                                                                      q
                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                              3 1,.1
                                                                                                              q >OIJ
                                                                                                                    Const Variable Total


                                                                                                                              11.C    J/,.1
                                                                                                                              0.1) "'1.b J(,
                                                                                                                                              Const Variable Total


                                                                                                                                                 .2...
                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                       it
                                                                                                                                                                            -~
                                                                                                                                                                                  Const Variable Total


                                                                                                                                                                                   .?-9
                                                                                                                                                                                  f,'f,2,
                                                                                                                                                                                                /,'I 5.1
                                                                                                                                                                                               O.l ,'1.2.
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Const Variable Total


                                                                                                                                                                                                                   q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /9          )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I     ID
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Const


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            l'/.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     lO J./0.~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Variable Total


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      J.I 'JJ.J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      J.J ia.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
 3-JN 01 'IN!'
 HN 01 IV-
 ~

 6-
                             7
                           //J
                                         ()
                                         /)
                                                7 /1,q
                                               1/l    Ii.'/
                                                               ao Il.'-1
                                                               llb lb.~
                                                                                       ~
                                                                                      /l         0
                                                                                                  0           3 ,,.1
                                                                                                              0  bD
                                                                                                                              OJJ Ii,!/
                                                                                                                              o.c o.~
                                                                                                                                                 'I
                                                                                                                                                  ?
                                                                                                                                                              /)

                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                            4  7.1
                                                                                                                                                                            7 13.5
                                                                                                                                                                                               0-D 1.?
                                                                                                                                                                                               O.l 13.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      l 1/3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /./ (]_~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0 /./.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       o.r (l,r.        I
 7.
 g.

19-l'JTUI' t:1
                            ,,,          /)  0 O.l             n.D         /)I        2           fl          1      ,,., 0.0 Ill         0                   0             6       o.o        /)/,
                                                                                                                                                                                               o.r; H II
                                                                                                                                                                                                        /\/1       0         0        0     Ill       11,0     l\.f'.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
INl'I, <rran:f'           IS             0 l.f' '-5.4          ().D      ~~i           )         0              J 5,i         O.b    f.J lo                   6             ).,    3$                                        0 JI '3.J./              /J.l H~
~                        5~              I 5q r/.3              J.? /Ob-            l'l          0        l'l /{)().0         o.o //JO, 5/                    I       51 M.J                   1.1 IIQ/). If~                t. 117 100.              '1.3 110/).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
iI).
                         Cons!
                                     Number
                                                M1 u
                                                          Per Cent
                                     Variable Total Const Variable       Total Const
                                                                                             Number
                                                                                                          JvA/e
                                                                                            ·1ariable Total
                                                                                                                          Per Cent
                                                                                                                    Const Variable Total Const
                                                                                                                                                          Number
                                                                                                                                                         Variable
                                                                                                                                                                        Jt/£.J,I
                                                                                                                                                                                   Per Cent              Number              PerCmt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   llt/6t/S7'

                                                                                                                                                                       Total Const Variable Total Const Variable Total Const Variable Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
 1-/N ,., ,... "
 2,-'\tJT"r\NlQC:.

 J-1111        o, l>NE
                            ~/l

                             3
                                 I       0
                                         3 .''13
                                         0
                                                I !I.

                                              .3 ,.1
                                                      a:
                                                                (),b
                                                                '-1 H.~
                                                                O.D &.'1
                                                                           ?.'        J
                                                                                     fl
                                                                                       I
                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                  /)
                                                                                                 ()
                                                                                                         ti 7H
                                                                                                              ~

                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                     ll.D

                                                                                                                     1-/.0
                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                              /)

                                                                                                                              0.l
                                                                                                                                     111
                                                                                                                                     '!U:
                                                                                                                                     '1./J
                                                                                                                                                  /./
                                                                                                                                                  q
                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                               /)
                                                                                                                                                                            I/ 11,/)
                                                                                                                                                                             q )/1,_(J
                                                                                                                                                                             I 5.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                /).~ '}fl{)
                                                                                                                                                                                                /I~ 1/J.I
                                                                                                                                                                                               /J.I 5.l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  II
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 31
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0          a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     II
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    31 /,,/,5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1/.,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            O.D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /1.0 112
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      O.{) f,}.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0 () /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
 4-/1\l DI "C.,              0            n      0     o.~      ,t        IJ.{)       11         0            o fJ.0 o.D n.O                      11          0             0      /)./)       o.o O.l             0         0       ()    0,         n.O     /l 0
 ~

 6-
 7.
g.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
9-l"IT"E"
IN-,T <:r.OTED

       Total
                            q
                          !fl
                             0           0
                                         C)
                                                 0 o.~
                                                 Q 1H
                                         3 J{.5 193.3
                                                               MM

                                                                ,.~
                                                               /J.O 11.?
                                                                       11110.      15
                                                                                     3
                                                                                      ,1         0
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                 /l 1.5 ~M.{.
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                              ~
                                                                                                                     O.b
                                                                                                                    11.l
                                                                                                                              (J
                                                                                                                              /J,1
                                                                                                                              11, hM.
                                                                                                                                      Ill
                                                                                                                                     11.1
                                                                                                                                                lO
                                                                                                                                                  /)
                                                                                                                                                  i
                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                              (J
                                                                                                                                                                         0 b.!)
                                                                                                                                                                         ~ '?11.l
                                                                                                                                                                        )1) 00,l
                                                                                                                                                                                               /J.O ()./)
                                                                                                                                                                                              IJ.0 30.l
                                                                                                                                                                                               ,1.0 vnb.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                &1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /)        O!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             () Jil
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0 o.D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     q J?J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          oo.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      n.D     (J,[)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ()/) 1'1,3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      11,/) IIAb,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                     Number               Per Cent                           Number                       Per Cent                        Nuntier
                                                                                                                                                                      J/lot1EMl!i'e-t
                                                                                                                                                                                           Per Cent                      Number                   PerCmt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
ID-
 I• IN r' l>O
                         Const




                            2
                                     Variable Total Const Variable




                                         0       j    tJ. ?    ll , t.L.I
                                                                         Total Const




                                                                                      ~
                                                                                            Variable


                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                        Total


                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                    Const Variable Total


                                                                                                                     '!,(     M       '1.'
                                                                                                                                              Const


                                                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                                                         Variable     Total Const           Variable   Total   Const    Variable


                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Total Const


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7 ).5,q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Variable Total


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (),0 '" _q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      9 '-l.l //. / 333
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
hN PU~NF

~

6-
                            0
                             Q           O
                                         ~
                                                 O
                                                 0 /l I
                                                       Ol      (tl
                                                               (lj
                                                                          II,
                                                                          11,I
                                                                                      3
                                                                                      I'.
                                                                                                 O ..i 13./ o.O l3.I
                                                                                                 a         r,        01      II !) 11 I
                                                                                                                                                 &,
                                                                                                                                                 I            0             I     l,q         f'J.1    J.C        /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     t./ l'/.9 o.O JJ/.~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ll o.D n.o /J.D                   I
g.

                            Q            o n 0.fl              {l./J      O.l         0          0         0 O.l             {l/J    {){)         I           o , H n.o t<                                        D          0       0     O.{)       o.O o.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                           0             0      0 /J.I         (),1      0l          J./         0        4 3/l.l /U iti < I 5
       Total               3                                                                                                                                  CJ       -;ii.i Do.o             o.111no.         11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                        216
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
I
I
                                                                          L/'M/111(2A/                                                                     t?&IAl6                                             4'V         M<2tvu1/s

I                                    Number
                                                  J11A1//,t/lN
                                                                      ;:-o.e

                                                                f'erCent
                                                                                       ,., ,
                                                                                             Number
                                                                                                           ,,
                                                                                                           Fc4£uA£v
                                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                          Per Cent
                                                                                                                                   .5
                                                                                                                                         J




                                                                                                                                                         Number
                                                                                                                                                                     /9<t?
                                                                                                                                                                       Mil£!!;,,
                                                                                                                                                                                   Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,4,o,e;t..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Per Cent
                            Const    Variable Total        Const Variable Total        Const Variable Total          Const Variable Total          Const Variable Total       Const variable Total   Const Variable Total          Const      Variable Toi~


I    I).

        l·JN       ('CJ(l
     2·(')/JTIVln.:,c
                               2.
                               .1
                                          0
                                             I
                                                      J, Id~
                                                      3 !tJS
                                                                     11./,
                                                                    ,r.1 ~~
                                                                              tl~        .I./
                                                                                         1
                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                ~
                                                                                                             I, 15. l
                                                                                                                      I)./        1),4
                                                                                                                                  :u /(}1 I'/
                                                                                                                                             /).       ~      'I)
                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                        :f     u       J.~ f.'f
                                                                                                                                                                      /1' u,J tJ,I) 11{1!1
                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                        </'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                tl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ;J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ()

                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /J.d        t.M ,1./1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   :n., 0.0 1.'/.I,
     l-lN Ol llf'H•             f         0           ~ f.J,J       o.t ,Y). I           ,y'          ~      J{ IJ./             () 0 /J,/            'J       0        f' /J. /      11A //, I         €       ,1       ,r        17.1 O.lf 17.2

I    41N l'HI)(..,
     $-

     6-
                                ()        0           11 (J.L       II I,     /J L        I           /J     / ,./J              ll d J,/J
                                                                                                                                                      "        /,      5 ,.1          tJ_I) 1,_q        'I       ()       'I       JJ,'1 tJ,0 /.!.?


     7.


I    8-
     11-0T~ER                   0            a        o a.~         11_/      t!L        /            (J        /     3.b        (JJ 3.0     .2_               d   ~    JY             /J.tl ;J        0        0        {)         p,J          Ill! tJ.tJ
    IN~T C:TATl=I\
                               •
                              I 'I
                                          0
                                             I
                                                      /. I~It
                                                    j{/ l</1/.7
                                                                    1V 11.L 17
                                                                    i'.1 ~o.
                                                                                                      tJ 11 1-1'/,5
                                                                                                      I U IJ17tl
                                                                                                                                 11.t 51.5 .t.Y
                                                                                                                                 J.tJ ~-           '?2
                                                                                                                                                               C) 31/
                                                                                                                                                              ,1 7J., VtJl,J
                                                                                                                                                                             ~.z o.'tl './f.J_ 11.
                                                                                                                                                                                      JJ.~ 'JJJ.     14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                               ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I).. "I/.?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ~1 I/Jd, 0 IJ,0 /JI.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                tJ.J '//,'(


I
                                                                                       '1J_
    ~




                                                                                                                I /Vc                                                                                                  A1.Gt1~r

I
                                                     M"                                                                                                                J,,1...1/

    Ii                      Const
                                     Number               Per Cent
                                     Variable Total Const Variable Total Const
                                                                                                  Number
                                                                                                 ·1ariable Total
                                                                                                                              Per Cent
                                                                                                                     Const Variable Total Const
                                                                                                                                                            Number              Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                           variable Total Const Variable Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Const Variable
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PerCmt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Total Const Variable Total
    ,ll-
     l·IN r.AR                 .2.           tJ       ,2_ /IJ,l      M /J,/)                 I        t         I     ;,✓,,       IJ.6 /11.S           1      5         q /1.J .2b.~ 1.n,                I      D         I 1/./J O,tJ 11.0
I    2-a u-rooo ii~
     3·1N PLAN<,
     4-JIJ RlDG..
                               0
                                1
                               /)
                                          !J
                                         I)
                                         I)
                                                       I) IJ,/)
                                                      !J IA.()
                                                      t,    1),/J
                                                                    tJ.J
                                                                     /}/

                                                                    /JI
                                                                              I) I,

                                                                             IA,/J
                                                                             I}   /J
                                                                                          I
                                                                                         1..
                                                                                         /J
                                                                                                      0  I N.3 t?.!J f/.3
                                                                                                      0 i ?1.& /} ~ .1l. /,,
                                                                                                      () a {).~ t?./J J. /)
                                                                                                                                                      I{
                                                                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                                                                               tJ
                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                               ()
                                                                                                                                                                       1 16,1
                                                                                                                                                                       2, 1.1
                                                                                                                                                                       .2      V
                                                                                                                                                                                       (J,t) 1,.'i
                                                                                                                                                                                       IJ.{) 1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                       0~     (3
                                                                                                                                                                                                       IA
                                                                                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                (l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /{)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         :1 /J.{)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         :l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            J/J,/J

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    &'.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0 ifd,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I) I\

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /111
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         11,D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          f/.l


I
     5-
     6-
     7.
     8-
                                                                              ~~                                                             J,0                        I 1.2
I
    ii- OTl.ll:11     /J                 (J          0 11.A         tl.t                 ~            I)     (:)      I)         (J,/)                 J       0                       /J,j   i.2       j       (.;I     3 11.0 01) ll.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1




    l'l.l)T SnITEll It.                  /)         II. fd.b        /lL 5JiJ.J           3            I)     -~ I lf.2.'         1'./) w,_q 6                  fl      {, 1,:0          Al 'lkl         I.      /!       ! .1.1{.IJ /111 11/,0
           Total            .2/l        0           2}1 IM.L        11.DvM,              7           ()         ?1/J0.i          Ali IJAd. J</                 .r;    ?A/ 79.1        '16.'I •oo.    1_,,       ('_     25 '/JO.O O.l Jt)b,


I   I
                                     Number
                                                   Scl'TE M4cR
                                                                 Percent                          Number
                                                                                                           Ot!ro/Et:R
                                                                                                                            Per C01t                        Nuntier
                                                                                                                                                                      11/;;ue~""="
                                                                                                                                                                                Per Cent              Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /JGt!E' M!sEtl!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PerCmt
                            Const    Variable Total        Const Variable Total Const            Variable Total      CO!llt Variable Total         Const   Variable Total Const Variable Total Coost Variable          Total Const Variable Total


I   Ill-
     l•Jrl l'llR
    z.,.,, ....,.,,,.,.oc
                               ,I/

                               J.
                                         r
                                         (
                                                     '-I ~-~         ti
                                                                    I'll
                                                                             ft1.ll
                                                                             1,;_II      5
                                                                                          I          I)

                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                      /~.I
                                                                                                                5 'i>.O /'Jf rt,/)
                                                                                                                                  d,0 Jh,0            ()
                                                                                                                                                      5
                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                               (I
                                                                                                                                                                        0 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                        5 ,J.'
                                                                                                                                                                                       o.O 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0 'l./.~
                                                                                                                                                                                                        t,
                                                                                                                                                                                                        C,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                .1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         q fl.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (,        1'1,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 'I.~ l'I.C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 n.r 1q.3

I
    3·/N OIIINE
    4-JN J,tl\r...
    5-
                               3
                               I
                                         (
                                         I
                                                     1. '"·"
                                                     3 ?'?
                                                      l     '!.'.
                                                                    0.11 ,<i I
                                                                    ('Jf      1.'I
                                                                                          I
                                                                                          I
                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                      (
                                                                                                                    I ID,£ ll/ 1/J,O
                                                                                                                    I io.b nn 10.D
                                                                                                                                                      </
                                                                                                                                                      i;
                                                                                                                                                               (1
                                                                                                                                                               (]
                                                                                                                                                                        <i ~1/j
                                                                                                                                                                        S 11.~
                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0 111.i
                                                                                                                                                                                       M 11-7           l
                                                                                                                                                                                                         3      /')
                                                                                                                                                                                                                u 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         j
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,.~ 0.11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     q_J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (J_()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         9.?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         t..~

    6-



I
    7.
    8-
    ii- OT'M-E R.               I        ()           I 7.7         11./1     7J         I           n        I                  1111        1M       0         ~       (l     no on (J,ll              D       C       /)           ()_()      n.a /)(\
    INOT c::TATI;."            :1        (l          'J.   JS.I/    f'I.C /t,,1/          I          (l       I IA.I  '"·" fH ,~.( 5                           (1       5 11.'         n.o lJ.?
                                                                                                                                                                       ,~ ll!O,( ~-~ Od.               ll
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,v
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ~       JI 11;,5                (),{' t'i.5


I          Total             13          0 13 i()/')_O               (J./) IIM          10            0      If 1/J/J.l           0.0 /tJO. .l3                C                                                 ~     J/ qoJ                    q_~ IMO.




I
I
I
I
I                                                                                                                             217


I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                    Number
                                              J ..,,,.,,,,,,
                                                                 l'erC"1t                     Number
                                                                                                          Fe        4
                                                                                                                        1/."""
                                                                                                                             Per Cent                            Nu-
                                                                                                                                                                             M"/U/1
                                                                                                                                                                                         Per Cent                       Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A o!f1L.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
    I).

    ~ R.
    l·riu
                           Consl Variable Total




                              L
                               J.       ()
                                        .2.
                                                   ~
                                                        Const



                                                          7.~
                                                   ft 1,'l.1
                                                                     Variable Total



                                                                        I//;
                                                                        7.'I l'U.
                                                                                 7.'l
                                                                                        Const Variable Total


                                                                                            I
                                                                                           J.
                                                                                                     2,
                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                            3
                                                                                                            .1 133
                                                                                                                        Const Variable Total


                                                                                                                          ,.        13.3 1/J.0
                                                                                                                                    (J,{)   /3.1
                                                                                                                                                     Const Variable Total


                                                                                                                                                         ll
                                                                                                                                                         3
                                                                                                                                                                      /)
                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                    Const Variable Total


                                                                                                                                                                               0 tJ.D (J./) d.()
                                                                                                                                                                               4 51),{) ,,.1 U.?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Const Variable Total Const variable Total



                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            {]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I .1-3.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     'l £1..'I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /l.O   U.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         o.o 1.,.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
    3-jl\l PLA~E
    4· Jl'I 11J..l'lf..,
    s-
    6-
                              q
                                I
                                        0
                                        ()
                                                    f/:JL
                                                    I 3.'l
                                                                        (),0 33.3
                                                                        0.1. J.1
                                                                                           <f
                                                                                           0
                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                             q (,M
                                                                                                             0 D.D
                                                                                                                                     O.l ~O.tJ
                                                                                                                                     IJ.D b.D
                                                                                                                                                         J
                                                                                                                                                         {)
                                                                                                                                                                       /}
                                                                                                                                                                       (l
                                                                                                                                                                                I /£., o.b lb.1
                                                                                                                                                                               (] M IJ.0 f'J.D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   {)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     r o.o M ll.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ll /J,O             Oil t1n       I
    ,.
    II-
    !l-t'JTIH-P                I        0           I     .1.7         t).L 3.'I          I          0         I         f,,',       M      6.'         0             ()       0 o.D          n.o (If              (J       /1       (]     n.o          (j_() C,.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
NDT c;ran:fl                  £         tJ    /, 1.2.1..               0.0 ll..1          0          0      0            IJJ,        ,1      /1./J       I             r.      I 11..'I a.u 11,.1                  (l       (J       (l 0.0              1m 11.(J
~
                            '},:;       'L .1.'1 l•u,1                  '!.Ii 100.       /3         1.     l.5 ,,.1 11. • //IA.                         5              I       b t3.J 16.? I/DD.                  J        0         3100.n              (J.t //JD.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
i
i
,I).
                           Coost
                                    Number
                                                 111111

                                    Variable Total Const
                                                                 Per Cent
                                                                     Variable   Total Const
                                                                                                Number
                                                                                                '/ariable Total
                                                                                                               1...,1,
                                                                                                                                 Per Cent
                                                                                                                        Const Variable Total Coos!
                                                                                                                                                                  Nuntter
                                                                                                                                                                               J [.(/
                                                                                                                                                                                      Per Cent              Number
                                                                                                                                                                 Variable Total Const Variable Total Coos! Variable
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4,;Gt/5 r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PerCml
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Total Const Variable Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
    1·/N el:itl
    2ourrvv11?':.
    3·/N p, AN I'
                              11
                              3
                              0
                                        /l ~ !Tr 0.0 fl!)
                                        C 3~0.0 () .c ,D.0
                                        (I         o
                                             a.c /1.0 tit
                                                                                           0
                                                                                           0
                                                                                            I
                                                                                                             {I
                                                                                                               (l
                                                                                                               I 111i>.
                                                                                                                 /l
                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                          ~          0.0    an
                                                                                                                                     OL !JM.0
                                                                                                                                    fl.O /l.O
                                                                                                                                                         2,
                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                             I         0
                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                       (]
                                                                                                                                                                               I JI.I
                                                                                                                                                                               1 ).t2
                                                                                                                                                                                    11,J
                                                                                                                                                                                               l•J

                                                                                                                                                                                               I.
                                                                                                                                                                                                        /I.I
                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.l.!
                                                                                                                                                                                                              .J
                                                                                                                                                                                                             12
                                                                                                                                                                                                        II.I 2.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '-I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    13 1,/)j
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     J.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1,;l


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            11J.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5.0 'J..l.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         li.O 1,5.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         o.o IM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
    4-11,1 Rll'lf~.           0         0 C "·l (H /H                                     0          I         ( II                 O.D 8.~             JI             (]      Ji 11/./JI               W.1 I               fl        I      5.0         a.n J.0
,6-
    s-

    ,.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
!11-
/9- t'lTIH, e_
INoT snn-n
I         Total
                              (l
                              .2.
                              .5
                                        0
                                        0
                                        0
                                                   0 IJ.0 a.r a.o
                                                   1 -¼l.0 n.r llfl.0
                                                  SIJO().O              BJ l!M.
                                                                                           (]
                                                                                           u
                                                                                           I
                                                                                                     0 0 (If
                                                                                                     C         C /J.O
                                                                                                               flnll.
                                                                                                                                    0.1
                                                                                                                                     /J.(
                                                                                                                                            w
                                                                                                                                            o.e
                                                                                                                                    0.0 100.D q
                                                                                                                                                         /J
                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                      ()
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                       /l
                                                                                                                                                                                {    IJ.O
                                                                                                                                                                                I JI. I
                                                                                                                                                                               q1IM.O
                                                                                                                                                                                               ().{,
                                                                                                                                                                                               /l
                                                                                                                                                                                               o. 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                         ().0
                                                                                                                                                                                                        //.}
                                                                                                                                                                                                       'fl~.      "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0        /}I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0      a.o /Ul 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0 O.~ M I}.()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1 W Qb.O /{).0 'lnO.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                 5G"Pr£'--AEJll                                           Oer,7.iER                                                          IIIPJ/1£ M4£P                                        0Et!EH./!e/J.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
'                                   Number                    Pet Cent                           Number                       PetCmt                              Nurrtier              PerCfflt                       Number                         PerCmt


io.
    I-IN C.ll.fl
                           Const


                                I
                                    Variable Total


                                         I
                                                        Const Variable


                                                   1 .f.L               t, //.l.
                                                                                Total Const



                                                                       o.o 11.l /5
                                                                                           t
                                                                                                Variable Total


                                                                                                     /J      t
                                                                                                                        Const Variable Toi~


                                                                                                                          1.1       IJ.0     'I.I
                                                                                                                                                     Const


                                                                                                                                                         ,.,
                                                                                                                                                                 Variable


                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                             Total Const


                                                                                                                                                                                j
                                                                                                                                                                                ~
                                                                                                                                                                                            Variable


                                                                                                                                                                                     //J 5.9 I?.?
                                                                                                                                                                                    ?1J IJ.d 13.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Total   Coos! Variable Total


                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .3       I        3 21.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Const variable Total



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ~.O ~-~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         {)JJ J.'/j
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
 21'UT"l'>Ml<C.                Jj       ()         /./ 12.l                                          0 /5 53., (1(J 53.,                                I/             0                                           J/                       '.lJ..~
 3·1N PL lln1F
4-Jh.l Rl,.l'IG,
 ~
                               9
                               2.
                                        (J
                                        11
                                                   q 5tJ.0 /J.O t.oJJ
                                                   ') IJ.I             r11l JJ.I
                                                                                          5
                                                                                          1
                                                                                                     0 5 17.9 /J,6 17,q
                                                                                                     I 3 'I.I .1., //J.'I
                                                                                                                                                         7
                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                       {l
                                                                                                                                                                       {l
                                                                                                                                                                                ~   If/.} M. '{/.1,
                                                                                                                                                                                I .3,q         6.r1 5_q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3 nJ llO J.7.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I\      0.0          u 0.(        I
 6-


II-
    7.


9-QTI-IER.                    0         /l        rJ 11.0 fl.0 fin                        .1         /l     .3 l~.1                 IJ,{) 10.'1         0              0       0 /J.O o.o (J.O                     11       l        0       (!(         a.1 /l.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                              I         /}         I 5J 11.0 !,,I                                   {I      0                       o.~ bl)             1              0 1. 11.'1 8..1 ii. s                        I       0         I q,               (J.l q,J
INIT1"S"T.ClrfD
   Tot~                      )1          I       It q'(.lj ~.I, 11110.
                                                                 I                        "
                                                                                        )..7         I     ,.<J q,.1/
                                                                                                                         ().O
                                                                                                                                    .i.L IAA.         1 I,             I /? 9'1. J 5-' h""1 .                     11        (]      JI Jao.D             ~.I !/00,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                 218
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
I
I
                                                                            ,:.(2(,,fVl',2/11             t2E        t21ifE£Vtii#s:                        t2&f4/6                  S«,HT(IVGs                       ,ff             MCJ&Vt'S

I                                      Number
                                                   JI/N;,A,>l/
                                                                    P11 .,ent                 Number
                                                                                                          Ft=B"t1""1/
                                                                                                                           Peri::ent
                                                                                                                  Const Variable Tolal
                                                                                                                                           ,

                                                                                                                                                        Number
                                                                                                                                               Const Variable Total
                                                                                                                                                                    Mll~eh'
                                                                                                                                                                                    Percent
                                                                                                                                                                          Const Variable Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /),I),

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Const Variable Total Const Variable Total
                             Const     Variable Total       Const    Variable Total     Const Variable Total


I     I).

      1·/li CRR                 J          tJ         J u.o              tJt,   ,b.D       I        0         I f.,             b.D     5.        .1         t,      ~     1/.J         b,D II.I          J'{        (J.     It 13.J              ,.~     /5.5
      znurno,10~                .2.
                                'I         0
                                            I         3 13.:
                                                      'I     ~,.         r-.1 i,M
                                                                         (J.b ~.7
                                                                                           I
                                                                                         Jt,
                                                                                                    II
                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                              I SJ
                                                                                                            ID ~s.,
                                                                                                                                b,0   5.
                                                                                                                                 Ill 55.l
                                                                                                                                                  .1
                                                                                                                                                  I.        0
                                                                                                                                                             I      I{     3,7 1'1/1 1/1
                                                                                                                                                                           /1,J
                                                                                                                                                                     t J2, o.o ~.2 t.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0  I,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             50 115.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .2,q 1-/f..5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (J,0 5.V


I
      :i.11.1 Pl,.llNI:
      4·1N      /H.f'>r~           I       0           J      ,.1        0.0 ,.1          0          0       0 o.O              11,/1   ().0       q        0        9 lll lid 33.1 //                               0 JI            /4 7         0.0 lh.'1
      ~

      6-



I
      7.
      g.

                                           a                                                                                                                                                                                           11,0 o.o
      9-/'JTI.j E:. I<.
     Norsr=o
                                .2,
                                .2,        ()
                                                      J. 13.3
                                                      .1.13.3
                                                                         tJ.d 13.3
                                                                        M 13.3 .5
                                                                                           I         0
                                                                                                     0 '     5 27.f
                                                                                                                    ~j          n II    5.1
                                                                                                                                n.n ).'!,'/
                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                  "
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            t,
                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                    If N.'l
                                                                                                                                                                             J'J       (I),()   3.1
                                                                                                                                                                                        ao l'l.'l       ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                           /)        tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0        " It~a.o l{.g
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ;.O        c,~ /9.'/
                                                                                                                                                                                                         n
I    ~                        I'/          I         /j q3_j            ,.1 !100, It                 0
                                                                                                           "      lbb-0         fl.8 Iba. .2L                I J.1 1'-3 3.'1 JDD,                                   5 10.1           00                  IDd,




I                                                   M~                                                      J,t11e                                                 J,11-<1                                                  I),,, ,,,,.

     i                                 Number-              Pei Cent                            Number                     Pe, COit                     Nuntier                     Pei Cent                     Number                       PerCait
     i                       Const     Variable Total Const Variable Total Const                ·1ariable Total   Const Variable Total         Const    Variable Total Const         Variable   Total Const Variable Total Const Variable Total
      I).
                                                                                                             ,,
I
         l•/N   I' nR

      z,._.,.,..,.,,,~a•
                                JJ
                               5/
                                           0 JI '1.7
                                           1 .53 J/5.I
                                                                         o.i,    q_'7
                                                                          l.<J "11..9
                                                                                          IS
                                                                                          91         J
                                                                                                      I          f.•
                                                                                                            95 5.1.3
                                                                                                                                 0,l    Q,I
                                                                                                                                 /.1 J'l.0 J71
                                                                                                                                                  (I/        'I
                                                                                                                                                            J Jfo l,tf{2
                                                                                                                                                            J 1,9 t,
                                                                                                                                                                    1,/       I..        ,1q    '1.f
                                                                                                                                                                                        o.11 J/,f,I, 1?7
                                                                                                                                                                                                          "II       2,  //3 NJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7 ;ul 'fl.II          ,.~    O,'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,,. o.s 5/,2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          14-f

      l•II\J
     i'-IN
                l'l.llMI'
                rH.nr-.
                              ]5
                                'I
                                            ,1
                                            0
                                                     15 11.
                                                       t     7./
                                                                         O.b 12.I
                                                                         ll.0 7.1
                                                                                          If
                                                                                           f         " 19i /b.9t./.5 o.OO.tJ Jb,iJ.J.5 611/
                                                                                                     ()                                                     .~ '!JJ 1/.6
                                                                                                                                                                                        ()./ t.7 1-9
                                                                                                                                                                                        0,1/     tf,L    J.tf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .t 3/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     >f. 31           (,5         /,() i,5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.f


I    !s-
      6-
     !7.

      ~

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           u
I    :9•0TU r: /;I
     ....,,,.. <;TRTJ;;r,

            Total
                               .2.
                             /JI
                            VI I
                                            (l        ),     ///
                                           0 Pl /).,I/ 1W /i..'t %
                                           :., JJ'// 9f.2 l.'l JOD- J7J.
                                                                         ll,O    /J        3.        ()
                                                                                                     (J
                                                                                                             j      /.}
                                                                                                           u 'JO.A n.o U,1 Jf5
                                                                                                    /../l'U ~1-
                                                                                                                                 11d

                                                                                                                                j,l JDD.
                                                                                                                                        /./      IJ
                                                                                                                                               ?tf
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            (J
                                                                                                                                                                    IS
                                                                                                                                                               Jf5 J.3J
                                                                                                                                                          /'I l'lf).. 9f.1
                                                                                                                                                                             /,',       /J.O I,? !
                                                                                                                                                                                        11.6 i3.S 'It
                                                                                                                                                                                        IJ iot,. .JfJ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0 7t 11.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5 ./.:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   l.f 1.1'17 1//,,).,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  M 11.'I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3.S J~D.


I                                      Number
                                                    5°EPTEMAEJt
                                                                  Yeri;ent                       Number
                                                                                                          Ot!.ro'IJ~""
                                                                                                                        Per Cent                         Nunter
                                                                                                                                                                   //Jt?//eMAJ:L.
                                                                                                                                                                             Per Cent                          Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0E!EJ.?,9Gte
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PerCmt



I
                            Const      Vanable Total        Const Variable Total Const          Variable Total    Const Variable Total         Const    Variable Total Const Variable Total             Const Variable      Total Const Variable Tot~
     I).

      1·/N          C/tl?       If             I      Ii      (l.J       (Jj     r.~       I/         I      ID     IJ.'         /./ JJ (          5        .t..     7 1.5              J.l IM             .J,       3        f        fA         f..l     15
                               fJ          j         15 '{9. ~
                                                      3.1 .f).1 'f]                                 ·o      .yJ 1/t.7           OJ 1./1..'                  .2.     21 ;f;J             3.l '3/, 1         /J        I       /9      ).7,.,1.5 1U
                                                                                                                                                  "f
     21'lurnn11,;,.~
                                           0 12 7!-/ o.o 'f.il 15
 I   :l·JN OJ l>NE'
     '4·11J

     's.
     6-
                r,, n~.
                              /2-
                                i          2 /~ 'i. 9 U.. !../ /II
                                                                                                     0 1,
                                                                                                     0     Ii 15.2
                                                                                                                  /1.3          d.O JI,,
                                                                                                                                t1,6 lil         J./
                                                                                                                                                            I)
                                                                                                                                                            /)
                                                                                                                                                                     1 JJ.9
                                                                                                                                                                    'JI~J.3
                                                                                                                                                                                        Ob 1/J
                                                                                                                                                                                         Al     31.J /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                          1,{        I      1t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     t1 //) 15.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .17.1 1.5 31/f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 o.o 15.2-


 I   7.
     g.
     s.o,ueo
     Nl1T' ,;r-111"1=1\   ,'I
                                tJ         (I          0 t1.0
                                            () .19 ;ii.I
                                                                        /) /)

                                                                            -;.'f. I
                                                                        (J./J
                                                                                 A.t1
                                                                                          1
                                                                                           2-        0
                                                                                                     /)     {
                                                                                                             j     2.
                                                                                                                   '£.j
                                                                                                                                 ~.I    J.~
                                                                                                                                o.b fj IA
                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                             ~       0
                                                                                                                                                                    14 /1/.~
                                                                                                                                                                             IJ,0        O.b n.d
                                                                                                                                                                                          il JJ/,9  5
                                                                                                                                                                                                     I                j
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ()       5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I      1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7.1,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  M      ;.t;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t1,J ?,~

 I      Total           llf'f              {/t}., 95.1                  'IA ~d.          9/          I ft, flf.?                /. I!/N, 1.3                I{     ~7 91.0               {•. l d4. 1,/              5 1./, 9J,'I                  '1-~ IAO,




 I
 I
 I
I
I                                                                                                                             219

I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                       r,ute
                                s
                                1'1mber
                                           <&~A,,O>

                                                      PerC01t
                                                                     A~
                                                                                 CA~,


                                                                              L/s~
                                                                                                 '1nA 4 r/_f?JI/
                                                                                                              6-/0 SE~l),.,7'_<
                                                                                                            Number
                                                                                                                                ,:;,,:.-       ,;,,-_,;r/11/r,


                                                                                                                                              PerCeat
                                                                                                                                                                    ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                 ,.,un-t;

                                                                                                                                                                            Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                   t?,e
                                                                                                                                                                                   11-.10 ${'c_l),v?)<.
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                             .<;;.Ow/NG


                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    wr11r£               OA./FAr<:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              J 1- ho .SC.Co'(' ..... -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PerCeat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
      Enlllltion        Certain Doubtful To1'I Certain Doubtful Total                             ertain Ooubtfut Tolal Certain Doubtful Tolal                       ertain Doubtful To1'I Certain Doubtful To1'I certain Ooolrtful To1'I Certain Doubtful Tot~
IHl11I011                   I              .5                L.    IU         J.t ,/9               tl         ~        ,2,          '?"        4. '1 .r/7               ,.2.       4-            ,:. J.D 6.o               ?.tl      t)             I     I         ,,,., .J CJ ~-tl
l•AstlanDltical          u              ,d,.           ?'t         :JQl 1;l.~ '-'I g              /111            '1   19 :13.2. .:z,9 I.du/ I.J                                    3        /t:'. 1194            I I 2.!.9          .,2       ~          ✓ ,/. I              41 1:t.
z.Airaaft                  1               II           IR  .(.7 S.4 i1d~                          ,t             r      ,          9.3 1/.L l2t19 II                                I       If l//.4 !19 2K. f                     /111         4       ✓i:/      ?._4         ~' 2f.l,
                          ,,,                                                                           I                           J?.a /}/J :t-.1 ,:1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
3-Li;,tl'henom.                             ~            £ 4tl /(,, /.I.                                                    /                                                           I         /       6.tl     /.J'    /.5        A             e,    tl tl-tl              t?.,t?      (7.,:7
I-Birds                     I                   I        2, ,? 11 /J {l /./,                       ,,, " 17 tJ.tl                               ,?,?       ,?,?          A                    tl /J_/J             ~.,, ,., ,,         4-        I        S" f?.£                UJ          ,AA

$-Clouds, Dus~ et~         ,fl                                    11.7.t)                           p  0"   /J./, /J.i? .O.C,                                            ~          "         0 t!J.tl             t?.tJ tJ.tl                   0        tl                     t?.tl (JO
                                           "                                                                                                                                                                                          "6
                                                          /)                  Atl                                       /J                                                          0                                                                         tl-tl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,,.,,
                                                                                        ~/)

6-lmuffic. • .,.          .1               0             .J'        :J.4-     /2P        4,U        4          e,       f          1- ()         /7,/J     ~tl           .r         0             t>' 1f" tl.tJ                                 t)         t,       /:J?         tl.O /:2. ~
                                                                                         ,,,,
7-Psydlolopcal
1-Unl<no•
~tile<
                          "
                         /_;.
                          .]
                                            0

                                               "I
                                                         0
                                                        /2,
                                                         ✓ ./.Q
                                                                   /)I)
                                                                   'I.I OP
                                                                              '?n

                                                                              tJ.I 1.t.
                                                                                         ff        9
                                                                                                    0



                                                                                                  " "
                                                                                                              d
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                        f
                                                                                                                        /J
                                                                                                                                     /J,/J
                                                                                                                                  1?.i?
                                                                                                                                    4/J
                                                                                                                                                /J./J tJ.O
                                                                                                                                                /9.,?

                                                                                                                                                 tl 0
                                                                                                                                                           2P? 17
                                                                                                                                                           tJ_,:;
                                                                                                                                                                         t?

                                                                                                                                                                         ,:t
                                                                                                                                                                                    I

                                                                                                                                                                                    "
                                                                                                                                                                                    I!)
                                                                                                                                                                                                  I dtl /.!, 1-5
                                                                                                                                                                                             17 £5".q
                                                                                                                                                                                              4, 2t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,?,,?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /J.P J.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           26".~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,1'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /ti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       t9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,:,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         If 3,t.J'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0  tJ_/1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A.t?        &-tl tl. 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Clt? E'K1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 tJ.tl atJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                        63 Lo 123 lrl.1 41.K /,?tl.                                              121 It 43                                                                         11 t1 1'74.h :l/:4 lltlt'- '11                                j       49 U7 It.?. /(Jt).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
    T~                                                                                                                            IL1.I $1. :'} /ti?.                fp




      Ewaluation
                                    it I
                                        Number
                                                   ,S,;,-.,.;-_ ,< - .S..,,,..,. rlFS
                                                       Per Cent                 Number                Per Cent
                                                                                                              t:.·!lo

                        Certain Doubtfu I Total Certain Doubtfu I Total Certain Doubtlul Total Certain Dwblful Total
                                                                                                                                  >J,tHII r(:.S




                                                                                                                                              111..r 1-1'.1.f II,.
                                                                                                                                                                            Nunter
                                                                                                                                                                                    011~,e             ./,t) /11,1,v11rl!'--'
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                                                                                     ertain Doublfu I To1'I Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ·x,u, ... .,, r,."t' .u,,r .<.,..... r~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PerCmt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Tolal certain Dwblful Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
0-Balloon                ,2t,              /9 J'? 111.1                       /f.:l     ~/. ti     ,7/
                                                                                                   n
                                                                                                             20 4'/ 1114
                                                                                                              .r /fl I lo;                       4, Vef 11
                                                                                                                                                                                    .3       l'I          ~"-" J.E 2.1.i         17                 1     /t:'. 1/IJ.4           f. ,- /£",tJ
                                               4-                                                                                                                                                                                                                  llt." tJ. :z 21(.?.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
 l•Astmnomical            J-                              f         Q,/?        ?•        ~t,                                                                            12          J-       17 I/.( l            /,.;z_ 2/.t. _;t(,           IJ' #
                                               q                     9:7 1~ /~ tJ                   4
2-Aircraft              I~
                           ,:1
                                                        2/                                                   /¢        /{?           L~ II b lf:'f
                                                                                                                                     h ~/ 6-i
                                                                                                                                                                         r
                                                                                                                                                                          ,        /:J.      /7
                                                                                                                                                                                              ,, ,,,,     /..2     /S:tl 2/.2-       /,,)..      (        /f?        7.4 3. 7 If.I
3-Lidll Ptlenom.                               0             0      tJo                  I)_(?     ;l          J'       ~                                                           t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       "         tJ                                         ,,,_ (7
                                                                                AA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LUJ     121?                            /J       t!?.tl      /J,C7
4-Birds                   IP                {!J              t?     ~/}        ~/}      /),t)       ,1        ()        (7            ~...,      4,1 ,,,_ /)
                                                                                                                                                                         "          0         /J          t?.tJ tJ. tl O.c?            I        0          I        tU,.        t).C,) ,:7.{.
$-Clouds, llvs~ et~
6-lnsuffic. Info.
7-Psydlololical
                          .-
                           I

                           J
                                            4
                                            I
                                               e,
                                                         5
                                                         5"14o
                                                         2, ti.ff
                                                                    tUl       7.,
                                                                              /J,tJ
                                                                               ~q
                                                                                        UA

                                                                                        4.tl
                                                                                         /.I,
                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                    9
                                                                                                    J-
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                              ()

                                                                                                              el
                                                                                                                        t?


                                                                                                                        ~
                                                                                                                            f
                                                                                                                                    t?.tJ
                                                                                                                                      '1.4
                                                                                                                                     ~/
                                                                                                                                                (J.,?
                                                                                                                                                 ,,,_,,,

                                                                                                                                                 C?./J (/./
                                                                                                                                                           ;2,J
                                                                                                                                                           'f.u
                                                                                                                                                                          p
                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                          £1
                                                                                                                                                                                    0


                                                                                                                                                                                    "
                                                                                                                                                                                    /J       0
                                                                                                                                                                                              /J
                                                                                                                                                                                              /
                                                                                                                                                                                                          CJ.& 4.t) /J.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                          /;I.
                                                                                                                                                                                                          dtl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -2.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,:J.,t? /.£, ..ZJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    C.£ CJ. C,    :i.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               t!J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          :z..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .:25' lf".1 tl. tJ /'.<,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    l.:Z.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,::,_,;


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                a,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /.:2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /. I?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
8-Unkno'llln            J'f                            .1f .1/..J·                                ,:l/                 .:u ln:4                                                              2.2 1.27.f /1.CJ ~:(~ .J(,                                     l;?,J.; ,!7,tJ ~2.
                                           0                                  ;J_t)     J'/.S
                                                                                                              " .t, 1-1                         t}t) 1;1.fl          .l:l           0                                                           0        ?L
9--0ther


    Toi~
                          4                0            /,I


                        87 ]1 11;1.1/. I'1A? :J.9.i /tlP.
                                                                    .1.:Z. tltJ 5.1..              ,,1.


                                                                                                  '/'I
                                                                                                              "
                                                                                                            44 /.)/ M.t. ~f.4 I /,a::1 ILtJ
                                                                                                                                                d'./J      /.~           4-        t!J

                                                                                                                                                                                  ,2,,
                                                                                                                                                                                              ✓ l.r'.o at7 5.tl I/

                                                                                                                                                                                             Jt,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0        /I

                                                                                                                                                                                                       17.r.o .?t: t) /(JP. 1/J...? 31 llt3 ~1o /tip lt?t?.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              L. 7 cJ.i? ,t.. 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                    $
                                Number
                                           ~E<o-¥-
                                                      Per Cent
                                                                              Ft1,,,_
                                                                      ,.,. L~~ ...
                                                                              Number
                                                                                                ,?t,l,44r;n•,


                                                                                                    PerCmt
                                                                                                              6·/0
                                                                                                                                0,,:


                                                                                                                            Number
                                                                                                                                  SIF<o,,O>s
                                                                                                                                                S//'=-, "'6

                                                                                                                                                  Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                             I

                                                                                                                                                                          Numter
                                                                                                                                                                                  11-3~ Seu,h'.z,~
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ME-rAt.L/t!                   o,tfJ§ers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .31- 60 ~(:~o..r?>c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .eeeo,e r.eo

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PerCmt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
      Evaluation        Certain ODllbHul Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doomllul Tolal Certain Doobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu                                                                         Total Certain Dwblful Total
                           .t                                                                                           :z. ~,,, /tl ,;- 1/t?.;                                      d                                                           .:z                     .1.4 Ix"."~
0-Balloon
 1-Asbonomical               I                 :2
                                                   I    .J'
                                                          2
                                                                    'J.'J ~8 l//.5"
                                                                    J.~ '1 "1 /f."                 "
                                                                                                   ,,,,
                                                                                                               ,:l
                                                                                                              .:l       :J, lrJ.CJ //J..f /tl.~
                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                          .2        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                  5
                                                                                                                                                                                                  ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                          J.f°
                                                                                                                                                                                             J./. CJ.t? f.t  p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   'fl fl.9            ..2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,t       .,,,fl' 4'4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t:J.t1      i-<lq'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                {((/
                                                                    7. 7 ;u.1 jOf                   x                                           5.                                  It _'15" 35.9 ,in,, tRs l'1                                          ,u/ !,?_9 /J:L 5".l./.
                                                '                                                              I                      3 lu,:~
2-Aircraft                 ;;l.                          fl                                                              9 J/).1                                         /'i                                                                        7
,3-LiaJ,t Ph!IIOIII.
I4-Binls
[s-c1oud~ llvs1,et~
                           I
                           p
                                I           n
                                            (7
                                            0           p
                                                         I
                                                          I         J.I
                                                                    J'.R
                                                                    ,.,_,,,
                                                                               Cltl J'.i
                                                                               /J.tJ .?.S
                                                                              tl./J t9. t7
                                                                                                   ()

                                                                                                   ,?
                                                                                                    p
                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                               (!)
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                        /J
                                                                                                                        tJ
                                                                                                                            /       tl.tl
                                                                                                                                     ,?(J

                                                                                                                                     /J./J
                                                                                                                                                5."3 5',.J'
                                                                                                                                                 /J. /}    ,? /,

                                                                                                                                                .tJ,O /J.,::J
                                                                                                                                                                          p
                                                                                                                                                                           p
                                                                                                                                                                          t7        0
                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                              p
                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                  /       t:J.t7
                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,?,/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   If
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /},/}

                                                                                                                                                                                                          tl.t? t7. c? tl.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ;..i'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            "·
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       eJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,:1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .t:J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /J.tl .:J.:i :?.2.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    :t.z    CJ./, 2.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (1.cJ i?,Cl ;,7,,:J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
6-lnsutfic. Into.           /               ()           I          .?.fi     O.tJ      .J.f        I          eJ           /       5:f         CJ.CJ 5..s                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                    "I        /            ✓-~ tl.O I f               ;,        t)         .:z..    4,d          "?/J du



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
1-Psyc1'>Iogical           I               Cl            I         .J'. K'    ,:?.t)J'. f'         t!l        0         0            .,,,.,     LJ./J t).O                ;,2                 ,1'         ?t.      /. f    5".f'      dl        (}         0         a/J         ,?./?      /7,/2
JI.Unknown                 {,              0             L         n.         p tJ :2.1.J           4         (!)       ✓ LJ/.1 tl.tJ 21. t                               q         el            9 /{,./     t?.tJ It.I             lb         (!)      /t)       2)).         t:J.t7 22..J
9-0ther                   .;l.             0            ~           7'7       t7.0 7.r             ~          t7        t? tJ.O CJ.I? /JO                                 ,:,       (!)       I?          40 t?.Cl ao                 I         0          I        2.2.         '7.tl 2.2

    Total                I?                 9 :Z6 l.:':d JU /t?t7.                                /3           6 /fl 11.n J/./.. /,?,:?. 34 ,,l.2 .s-/4 bP. 1 39.3 /tJtJ. 33                                                                   I .2      4-.r 1,1_~ :2,.1 l1,1tJ.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
      Evaluation
0-Balloon
                           I,/ .$,F<owD~ - .!:° /4,,vo7"~<



                         .21
                                1'1mber
                        Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tolal

                                           /0
                                                      Per Cent


                                                       .71 /"1./.,  1.4 1.t£. ,.,]( /2
                                                                                                         Number
                                                                                                                   ,r. -3t7 M/Nv7"<'..t:
                                                                                                                               Per Cent


                                                                                                                       f,f 12.(?
                                                                                                                                                        Number


                                                                                                                                                J/'l 3'/.t. JI
                                                                                                                                                                                   Orts,e .Jb NI.. , ..-•
                                                                                                                                                                            ' Percent
                                                                                                  ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total J;ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtlul Total Certain Doobtlul Total Certain Doubtful Total

                                                                                                                                                                                        4 15 /'1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Number                Per Cent


                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10 '21,.1        Jt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7).,/P.,.YI_,-



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1- ?./J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IJ../,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <r~-r€1'1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ~/S:7I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                              Q .r.~ J.i 11                           I-        3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
I-Astronomical              I               0                / 41.i tJ.tJ t1 I & I                                 I 11.16'                      /./}       /.tl          .~             I                                                                ;1        .?.I   -:1.4 5".'i
2-Aircraft              ,:/()            /[            .?s It.I               l,'/.t >?9U         /tJ        ,lo .10 9.9                        /9.I '29.1               ,2         2         Q .:?.5" J.j' -?,tl ,(3                           I        .?/        /8.1 /..3 2if~
3-LiaJ,t Phenom.            I                  I         ~         tJ. fl /J.~ /.t                  ll            I     I            '?,?        /.0        /.tJ          /7        ti        0 t).(7 ,? I'.) (J. 0 I                            0        I          I)~ i?.17 LU
4--Birds                    i              0                 I     ,,,_ $' 'f" tJ. ff               ,,        0         /J          tJ.tJ ,1/J             .,,.,,        &          ,:J           tJ       .tJ.0 o.tJ loa              ti           I     I         ,?_,? ,,,_51 ,,,_g
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ~.,, t!?."
S-Clouds, Dus~ et~
6-lnsuffic. a1o.
7-Psydlolo&ical
1-Unl<nown
                         17

                        ,it
                           ,:J


                           I
                                           0
                                           0
                                           0
                                           ()
                                                        I
                                                         tJ
                                                        I~
                                                                    dtJ

                                                            as a,., ,,? y
                                                       2t l:J~f t?-P V.i
                                                                              ,?.t) tJ.O
                                                                  14.3 O.tl ,1t/.1
                                                                                                   t?
                                                                                                    q
                                                                                                    /
                                                                                                  /~-
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                        /)
                                                                                                                        f
                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                    P.tJ tJ. tl /1(7
                                                                                                                                    RI/ ,t?.t} g/
                                                                                                                                    ;,, .t7JJ /.0
                                                                                                                l/5' 11,1.9 ,!J.,:J /<(?
                                                                                                                                                                         .?

                                                                                                                                                                          "
                                                                                                                                                                         ..2
                                                                                                                                                                         -n
                                                                                                                                                                                    /)

                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                    t)
                                                                                                                                                                                    ()
                                                                                                                                                                                              j
                                                                                                                                                                                              tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                             ,a,
                                                                                                                                                                                                          :,: .7 0.0 G"J
                                                                                                                                                                                                          atJ O.tJ CJ.CJ .Ji
                                                                                                                                                                                                          $.G"     ,?.,:J _g5
                                                                                                                                                                                             27 147.4 a& (/)(I"( :l.'1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                t}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,:,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2.,f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2.f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,?_g'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ()     -'?/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ~ , ? 1,-,_ S"


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   l..?i.S /J.17 :22.~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             t?.,::J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         :22-,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
Jl-00,e,


    Total
                         ,2             .J              ~



                        917 .29 JJtl l7J.I. J.d.tf. /Pt:J.
                                                           I. 7 ,;.J- kz                           4-        ,2   (,  4()   .2.D ~-ll

                                                                                                  tf ,JI, /tJI 1/.4.~ 3J:t. ltl/J. IJi
                                                                                                                                                                          0        :<         ~           CJ.CJ

                                                                                                                                                                                        9 !,"7 ,M.:i /.f.i /a:!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.S" 7.S

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ///
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       9        0         ·1        1.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               16 /,27 1%1.¢ h.L /tJI?.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                t:7. t7     '7"./

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                              220                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
I
I                                        s-
                                      Number                Per Cent
                                                                    A,_
                                                                             ;°/J,,.
                                                                             /_,,.,
                                                                                                   A--••



                                                                                                           ,(-10
                                                                                                       Number
                                                                                                                                      t11"'
                                                                                                                                 S ·~-,;"'/).<
                                                                                                                             Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                 o,<,-,r-/1 /,c
                                                                                                                                                                           ,

                                                                                                                                                                            Number
                                                                                                                                                                                        17.IIJEt!?"
                                                                                                                                                                                   / / - ~- ,$',!:'~~K-•
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,,,,,, ,?S,,



                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Al/Jr'



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Percent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .~r,9-rtfii'a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ~1-L~ ..5#1,uYD~

             Evaluation       Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total                     ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total                         ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total


I       0.BallOOII
        l•Astiunomical
        2-Aircrlft
                               l.r
                                4
                                 t:?
                                         //
                                          .z
                                              I

                                                       t
                                                             I   /J,,.,



                                                                 /P.o
                                                                            ,l.,1' ?,;
                                                     .it, ~1J' l.:11.J- tS'.t,
                                                                             .fn /5:t,            ~
                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                   t            I
                                                                                                               .z
                                                                                                                     I           2. 6't1         ,,✓,




                                                                                                                                 9 ld?v 5:tl 14.o.O
                                                                                                                                 ✓ lt!tl /t?.17 ,Mtl
                                                                                                                                                         ll.at1

                                                                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                                                                                        ,:?
                                                                                                                                                                       I.
                                                                                                                                                                       .s- 4
                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                         I              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                       7/B
                                                                                                                                                                                                       f
                                                                                                                                                                                                              h1 .?..:l f!.2

                                                                                                                                                                                                         //.I R.4 ~(I.I!)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (/.1, 155
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .a,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .:l

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             91 , ..r lt.Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ~~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,~ q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        J. :i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1,,,t,'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ~..,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /f.4
                                 p                               ,,,,., /Ir?                                                            ~,,                            p                             t'J tUl dtl I.a,::,
                                                                                                           2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,.,11
        Hi&hlPhoiom.                      CJ                                                                                     2.      1t1.t1 //Ji!)                                                                                                   t)        t? /l.0               LJ.tl        ,!).tJ
                                                                                       ,1()       /)
                                                                                                                                                             ,,,,,                  Cl


I
                                                      /J
        4·Birds                 17        0           17 "'- t1              ,:?.(?  t'J.O        p            CJ            t1 tltl '1 /J                             p            0                 /J     atJ tl.t? 17. tJ                            tJ       /) /l.tJ tl.Cl                      CJ./J
        >Clouds.Oust, etc.       I        0            I ,t.6'               .4.0 2,5             ti        t)                t1 tltl ,?0 /Jr?                          ti          I                I (J.tJ 2.:2. 2.:2                      ,!)         0        t7 t.J.O t:l.t7                     ao
        6-lnsuffic.lnfo.         .J-      0           s- /,l.J               t?.t:J 12.,,          I       0                     I     5:/1 dt1 5,/J                     ?                           :I If.I. 4t1 '!,:L                      .t.         Q         fZ        ;.ti,       -'?"         ,/.,£,
        7-Psydlolo1ical                               t1 t?t1 aCJ                                 ,!)      0                 t1        ,?.tJ /J,,, IJ.tJ                           "
                                                                                                                                                                                   t)              CJ         t2t1 at?           ,:J.,:7     ,?          t)        t:? tJ.t?            CJ.CJ         CICJ
                                tl        0
                                                                                                                                                                        "
I
                                                                                       /JO
        II-Unknown
        9-Qllle,
                                 I
                                t)
                                         0
                                          0           t'J
                                                         /       :2.G
                                                                 /J.tJ
                                                                             ao ,u;
                                                                                .,,~
                                                                             '; A
                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                  ,?
                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                           ()
                                                                                                                             1,-
                                                                                                                                 t1     ,, ,., t2c?
                                                                                                                                       lt?tJ     ,?,1 /tJ.O
                                                                                                                                                             1117
                                                                                                                                                                      /tJ
                                                                                                                                                                       .,t         i
                                                                                                                                                                                    ()          /tl ;;;,
                                                                                                                                                                                                 10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         tJt? :t2.t
                                                                                                                                                                                                             4. 4 11., t,:J.t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             t7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         " 1¢' k2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I         I        ,?,?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        £).CJ 9°'£.1.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             f.:Z.    5.Z

                              ~t         ;;/ 4o /,J'o s•':°o W.?.                                              ,:.                      1t:?t, 5tl.tJ /tlt! it?                                 /J- tt.? J13 /t1.?. 21:,                                                    f,,J. 1'14- I/~
I   I       Total                                                                               /ti                         .:/()                                                  /!,                                                                   ,:.     $1




I   r--      Evaluation
                                      {,/ Sc&~DI -~ rtHvrF.r
                                      Number                Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                               &.-~,, 14,,.,,,,.,.,,,~
                                                                                                          Per Cent               Number                Pe,Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                    tJve✓t Jp /11/,,.,,rF.r
                                                                                                                                                                               Number
                              Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Toi~ certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu
                                                                                                                                                                        7           -, 11/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ~..,-,,,.,. ,v.r S:-rArF 1>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Per Call
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Total Certain Doubtful Total
        0-Balloon
        I-Astronomical
                                /4
                                 a
                                           J         d
                                              2- tJ.tJ 2.Z 2.t
                                                                 lf.L
                                                                     .r
                                                                              :,~/. .!/2
                                                                                                   "           IZ 21 J/.1 J.{ 0 11..2
                                                                                                                    1 /..2 ~.f ff.1                                     9
                                                                                                                                                                                             ff 6' 3.J' 11.P /J /0 :is 4.9 1.i i.1
                                                                                                                                                                                     I It? 11.0 I. 2 12.2 ,14 I [ !it/ IL.r S:f.. VI
I
                                          2                                                                     :l
                                           ? 2s 111 1.3 25.t, n                                                                                                                          ✓I /.2., 1'1 ¢9 .2 :J ..ZJ ¢,:. JU, J.t,, d t
                               JI..
                                                                                                                '  19 1L.1 1.f' ~!.7                                                3
        2-Aircratt                                                                                                                                                     I
        3-Li&htPh.-.m.          .,;.       I  J' :JJ II ..?.J' t7                                               t:,          t)         /1/J     t'J.t:? 4tJ           £)           0                /J      ,J,()       !?./7 /J,O              :J          ?    ,:.        P.1         ;Jf           1.,:.
        Hirds                             0   tl -?"' /J.CJ lat' ,11                                            I                 I 17.17          11 ;.t,              3                                                                        4           I                /J P.4                   1.9
                                 "                                                                                                                                                  ()             ..?        17 /J,t?           .?.7                             5


I
        I-Cloud~ Dus~ el~       ,;        0   t1 /7 ll CJ.Cl II?./?  I                                      0                 I ,,2,, 110 /. t,                         .J         Cl               :J .J'f tJ.o                 J.7             I       0          I        (J.t/       12/J tUI
        6-lnsuffic.lnfo.'        ?             7 7. Ji O.tl 7.! /2                                         Cl               1:Z. 115.() ,at) g,()                      1.d                       ;;/ 11./ t'J.CJ /7. I                      ~~           0       ~s 2,.1                 17.t'J l?p.'.1
                                          "                                                                                                                                        "
        l•Psyeholo1ical
        8-UnknoMI             .JI
                                 ,!J      t7
                                          Q
                                              (l /7,? cJ.c? t1. t1
                                                    J'/
                                                                    :J
                                                                 fd.4 (1.,2 1/¢.'4' /t)
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               Q
                                                                                                                              2,. .t.5 17.() 2.!:
                                                                                                                            It' I/J.J            .ac 12,,; .2'
                                                                                                                                                                           J
                                                                                                                                                                                    "
                                                                                                                                                                                   ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                  3 1.';1 /J.tl .J'.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                .tt 3/?                  ,,,, 3/.1 14-9 QI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,?                d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 d'? 11.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I.I        4,Q I. G'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         t.:!(1       lf:1-
                                                                 .n, tl.O 5:&,                                                                                                                                                               ,~ I
I                               .r 0                                                               7                                    I.I O.t:J i'.K                  4                              ,:;    4-. 9 J.'1,                                                                               rs
        9-0ther                                      5                                                      0                    7                                                  I                                            t:I                             .,✓,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              11         /Jd

            Totm              '/5'       /5°'        ?o ii.B It., ttJP. 59 .2 I                                             Jt)         11.i )t.2 /Po.                ?'/J         l:t          h J[4 //).I. '"'? 21.f                                  5J .1Lt Jo I Jl/.9 :ltJO.



I                                                   lt(tf

                                      s SEl!bN'J)S ""' ,,,,,
                                                                              Etl//LU/9U,P//I
                                                                             FIJ.P-     ,,,    'ALJ_,./.,-,,.J
                                                                                                                       c2E
                                                                                                                           Ae

                                                                                                               ~ -/e, S<'~OKl>~,
                                                                                                                                       l'U-4
                                                                                                                                       _ _, J~,A/L
                                                                                                                                                     '>IGHOAIGS
                                                                                                                                                                     -,d..-!IA~t:r-


                                                                                                                                                                                   //-Jo
                                                                                                                                                                                                _,,,,,.,,,   t":/ CJ/•

                                                                                                                                                                                                             t't,-,'z;,s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AIL             -,A    AA,,,,, - -             .,,,,A

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ~ /- ,t" S°E't:,,,v"J;>.<
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    --_.,.    -r-S°


        I                             Number                Per Cent                Number                PerCmt                 Nundler               Percent                 Number                                                                                         Per Cent



I
             Evaluation       Certain Doobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Totm Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu                                                                           Total Certain Doubtful Total.
        0-Balloon
        I-Astronomical          17
                                  I}          0          11       t:J.IJ
                                              q .tt 133.~ /1./, 5tJ9
                                                                               I?,!?   ao
                                                                                                    ,,
                                                                                                   t)           0
                                                                                                                   I              ,?
                                                                                                                                     t:l t?,t} atl t!t:J
                                                                                                                                         31. J 4.:1. ;1,.,
                                                                                                                                                                        ,1?
                                                                                                                                                                        d.
                                                                                                                                                                                    L)
                                                                                                                                                                                       ,,             ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                       IJ /J.IJ /llJ tJ.11
                                                                                                                                                                                                             l/1.l /It gf-,1,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .:l      2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5     .(I ,J.~ If.I 2//
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  //         ,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,,. I/J5 21.CJ
                                                  t j:'J II.I /~7                                                                                                                                                                                                 ¥
                                 3
                                                '                                                  6           ~                  i .Jf.o l'.3 'h.S                                                   #' 9. I             ?, I l&'.Z                     2
        2-Aireraft                                                                                                                                                      ~           ;Z.                                                          ,2                          IIJ.5 i/l.5 1-?/.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,.,
I       3-Li&htPll.-.m.
        4-Birds
        5-Clouds. Dus~ etc.
        6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
                                 "
                                 "~

                                 .f.         0
                                              0
                                              I
                                              p
                                                         I?       tJ.r.
                                                          I 't'J.IJ .?CJ 2.tJ
                                                         t1 t).tl J'l.tl O.t?
                                                         ;/ 7.i      /lcl
                                                                              /J.tJ ,?,17



                                                                                       1.R
                                                                                                   ~
                                                                                                   ll
                                                                                                   ll
                                                                                                   t7
                                                                                                           CJ
                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                               tJ                tJ /) /, /J.tJ aa
                                                                                                                                 t'J IJ.t:J
                                                                                                                                          t?.c? ll.0
                                                                                                                                 ,? 4.;;; Cl.17 /JtJ

                                                                                                                                 tl /7,? tJ,c? t?.o
                                                                                                                                                                        tJ
                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                           /J
                                                                                                                                                                           p
                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                    p
                                                                                                                                                                                    CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                    ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                    17
                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                              tJ.tJ tl.o a,-;
                                                                                                                                                                                                              t?.tl f(6
                                                                                                                                                                                                              4.J
                                                                                                                                                                                                     tJ /J,/J tJ.t:J /J_/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                     t1 LJ.P t?.O t'J.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,:;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,:,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,:,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I G'..1'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /) 17 ,1 tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '>..1  /J.~ !!,,j'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /J/7 t?. Cl tl,CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /J t7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      tJ,/J



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      s::s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,,,,,, d,.                                                      .,.,..., !>..5'
I       7-Psychological
        II-Unknown
        9-0ther                 4
                                 ~-  I
                                          0
                                           I
                                             CJ

                                                      ,,;
                                                         I       2.0 ,1/1
                                                      < '1.i atl a
                                                                 .,_ ff ~./J ?.~
                                                                                       ~n
                                                                                                  r
                                                                                                   t'1

                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                           t)

                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                             s- !JA,I ,,,,, 111_1
                                                                                                                                 t1 17,/J 17./J 17.tJ

                                                                                                                             I 4.~ '7.0 .«?.
                                                                                                                                                                        I


                                                                                                                                                                        tl
                                                                                                                                                                           7
                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                      7
                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                       I      I/ e;
                                                                                                                                                                                                              JLI /J,/J ~1,9 4-
                                                                                                                                                                                                             lt?.CJ      .;r5' </1,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  J


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         "0 ,;:Jti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I ,:;-_.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           11{ /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /}.,?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /J.tl :?/ I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /,2.,? 10.,::,




I           Tot~              .~4 l'1 ..rl U.7 33.3 lltJ(J.                                     .:/1           ,J           .2 4 l1t /:?..l' /t)(), /,J-                            1 ,,n 1'1.; .JLI /(){), 12                                            1 19 IL~ 2 3t..l ltlt1.


                                                                                                                                      ~ '·•-'.S
I
                                 t.1.<,.,~-~~                    - .,; ,.,,._,,,r-,,                                                                                               1!1,.,-~ .3o /4~-.✓ .,-                                           'J)n,,,,,.,.-,~ N,r ,[r..,.,.,,z,
                                         ,.,_                              Per Cent
                                                                                                           "


                                                                                                       Number
                                                                                                                       -   ..A


                                                                                                                             PerCenl                                         Number                Per Cent                Number                Per Cent
             Evaluatioa       Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total                     ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total                          ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
        0.Balloon                 ~       J-          9 7.o                   u 15.1               &,              ;J.           S 1,.1 f.4 21.t                           3            0              .? /y(j t1.t1 1¥.J                        d         J      G .~":l /4 71.,
                                           ,I         // /JI')                                         ~                         ti i.1                                                  4-
I
        I-Astronomical           /I                                            '/.'1   '1;17                       I                    ..7.f 117.t;                           2                          7IM.~          /9.o J'.U           II           tc,    17 Jf."l I. 1 :t¢1,
        2-Aircraft               7        I'          /~         /:J,3 14.o 2t.3                   ..2         :2                /,I 5".',J ,;:,e/ 11t1,i                  n                1         1  t?.tl IV? 1¥..1                     II              l   1? 1£9 51,7 2¥.,
        3-Li&h1Pht110m.         .2       0            2,         J.!: ao               5.G'         (.          0                 t lt.2. ·at1 /t,.2,                                  0               I Ii R tJ,O ✓R                         I              0    I 1.;/ ,,,.,J u/
        4-Birds                  ,I!:/    ()          /J /?.!?               LJ.O ran              c            ()               t7
                                                                                                                                        .,, ,, ,,,~ IJ.t?                  n
                                                                                                                                                                               I

                                                                                                                                                                                       0              tJ JJ.l'J /J,O /J,t)                       ()      ()         ,., ,,,_,, ,,.,.,., tJ. t7
I       S-Clouds, Dus~ et~                                                                                                                                                                           IJ lalJ t7. tJ t?.O                         n
                                 A        ()          ,?         ~~          ,7,,?                 J9          4?                /J     t:).()   /J,/J       t).tJ         (/       0                                                                    n         /J        l?,/7       ,l),,:J      do
                                                                                       17"
        6-tnsuffl~ tnlo.         (.       0           h           IJ.S        IJ.17 /tJ.5           I          ,,              I ?.f? 17,0 2.r                          n           ()                t1      ,.,,,      /J. /J 1,-,,n           7       ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,._,      I0./        /J, /)       ,,, I
        7-Psydlolo&ieal          I        .2.        .f          ·7t
                                                              .-lf ;,.3                            ~           0              t1 aCJ 17,0 tJ. ti                           n           I               I (l.tJ ¢.R' 4.'!                         I        t:,      I         ;J/ a.o 14
                                                     15 :1/_3 ,,.,., IJJLj                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,.n:i. ,,,, 11.?t
        11-Unkno•               /.r       tJ                                                     I :L
                                                                                                   c
                                                                                                               t:,           12, s:i.4 /),? u_,-,                      J-           0                  ,: !?l 9 Al? 2U
                                                                                                                                                                                                              «
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             It:         0       It
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,.
I                                J                    g .f. ~ ,1/) ,:;_3                                    ,;t                  2,              s-:u ,;Q'                                                    I? /1,t} ~J                         I       4-                             ,:;J
        9-Qtlr,,                          Cl                                                                                            LJ.I?                              I                           I                                                                      /.U                      'f '2,
                                                                                                                                                                                    "
            Total             .18        If         /' 7 ILL., 13.3 10a .1,,                                   7 .11 ii.I I/Ii /OP. JJ                                              8           ..2.1        lt:1.4 11.I IPP ..r.i 11                            t9 17./.4 .14.t IOtJ.

I                                                                                                                                             221


I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                    titA?E

                          ,5 .;"<f",:--✓--
                               lmmber
                                            &tSt

                                                        ~" 1,,.,
                                                     Per Cent
                                                                ro~
                                                                             Number
                                                                                     -                          ,,e
                                                                                                 6 - .I,., ,$ ~t,b#'('D.'!i
                                                                                                   PerCenl
                                                                                                                               -                          ,,,
                                                                                                                                            ,:,.,e Gl.tlt,,////16
                                                                                                                            //-3(J _.!:,,. _ _,.,,b.S
                                                                                                                            Number                 Percent
                                                                                                                                                                        YELL"'·
                                                                                                                                                                           Y'E/...LOJ./       n4t£t!r.S
                                                                                                                                                                            1,.,-:.,., C,::eo,r'z,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Per Cent                             _,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
     Enlaalion         Certlin Doublful Total Certain Doublful Total Certain Doubtfut Tola! Certain Doulllful Tola! Certain Doulllful Tolal Certain Doubtful _Total Certain Doubtful Tolal Certain Doulllful Tolal
0-8111000
1--ic:al
2-Aircrlft               J
                          &
                         /}
                                    t'J
                                    _r
                                    -1
                                                "       tl./J
                                              //.. 14,., JR_ r
                                              .r //./ 7d //.r
                                                                    '-0
                                                                            "·"
                                                                           .r,~
                                                                                         p


                                                                                          '
                                                                                         -1
                                                                                                       ()

                                                                                                      (J
                                                                                                                 0      ,d,i

                                                                                                                 t. l.d/J '-" 14C.i
                                                                                                                        /✓.4
                                                                                                                                   ti." ld.P

                                                                                                                                                 '1,f./
                                                                                                                                                                o2
                                                                                                                                                                 ?
                                                                                                                                                                .J
                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                              -?
                                                                                                                                                                                     3
                                                                                                                                                                                     t. /J.'A
                                                                                                                                                                                     3 I.U-fJ
                                                                                                                                                                                               IAA      f.p /5.fJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                       /f,() l.1Ao
                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,.,., lf.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              'I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .,_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                "·"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Mo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         t'J.()     A.()

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /()_() l.&J'."o    I
                                                                                                                        ,.,,, '1."l                                                                                                                  ,S' /J~(J
                                                                                                       I                                                                   0                                                                                             /A()      .)J.D
                                                                                                                -~
                                                                                                                                                                ,.,
                                                                                                                                             I




J.lidrtPheno._         . /                     I       :t.?                              0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I                             ✓.o
4-Birds                  ~
                                    D
                                       I       I           "·"
                                                       P.p ;.--, J.7
                                                                           J.'J
                                                                                          I
                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                b
                                                                                                                .2      -t.1
                                                                                                                                   A ()
                                                                                                                                    '1. 'f 1.1.'4
                                                                                                                                                 ,P.O
                                                                                                                                                                ()         0
                                                                                                                                                                              0      0
                                                                                                                                                                                     ()
                                                                                                                                                                                               1/.fJ
                                                                                                                                                                                               t1.o     "·"
                                                                                                                                                                                                       17.(J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (JO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ().()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ()

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              t)       0             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I II.ti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A()      A.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .r:o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IJ.IJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                       .s: () ~"
~Clouds, Dus~ elc.
~lnsutlic.lnfD.
                          I)
                          I
                                    0
                                    0
                                               0
                                               I
                                                       ,f}_t)

                                                       J.7
                                                                0 0
                                                                    P.(J
                                                                           t/.0
                                                                           $.?
                                                                                         0
                                                                                         0
                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                  ,0            0
                                                                                                                 0      ,.(}

                                                                                                                        11.fJ      ,.o.o" '"
                                                                                                                                   "· (J
                                                                                                                                                 A.fJ
                                                                                                                                                                b
                                                                                                                                                                3
                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                           D
                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                     ~ 1/./:0
                                                                                                                                                                                                /1.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                       "·"       1/J."o , I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I         '·"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .[p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         t).O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         P.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ().()

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ~"
                                                       ,_,.,

~-                       "                                                                                      "                                                                                                                                                                           I
7-Psycllolopc:al                               p                                         A         0                   ,_(J
                                                                                                                                                  '·"           J         0          I         LO           ~-"               /        0              I        J: I)     ,.o       .r:o
                                    0                           I) I)      l).O
                                                                                                                                                                                                       "·" 1./'.o
1-Unlalo..               ..I        0         -~       ///      "     I)
                                                                         Ill
                                                                           ,.o
                                                                                         ,:t       0           ~       l.f.4
                                                                                                                                   "·   ()
                                                                                                                                                 /J.~4          $          0         j        1/✓.fJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                       "·"       I            ~        0            -3         /J.d      tl." J.t:()
                          0         0         0        0.e,     00                       /:,       0           0        11.,       ()./?         ,.o            0          0         0          d.,0   P.D
                                                                                                                                                                                                           "·"                0        0             0          /1.IJ    P.O        ().D


                       19 i                  ,;t7 1--1,,4 ,1.9(,, IAtJ               1/                                                                                                                                                5 I.lo l~.(o ~:o IIP()
                                                                                                                       lt/.L IJ:4 lot?.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
    Tolal                                                                                         ~            /3                                           IS             ,S' .:20 11.r.(/ ,.ro 11&10. JS




     Evaluation
0-Balloon
                          t, I S.ce,~D~ - .,; M.. •rl'•


                              I
                                  Number


                                        0
                                                     Per Cent

                                                I 2.i Pl!J ,J.j
                                                                              Number


                                                                                          t
                                                                                                   /..- 'I'~
                                                                                                    Per Cent


                                                                                                    3
                                                                                                                       Id.      u--
                                                                                                                             Nuntier

                                                                                                                 q 1/t.2 LI i:2tf_1 d,
                                                                                                                                                   Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                         JJ,,G"tt ..3o 1v1,_,,,,..,-.s
                                                                                                                                                                          Number                PerCenl
                       Certain Doublful Total Certain lloublful Tolal Certain Doublful Tolal Certain Doubtful Tolal J;erlain Doublful Tolal Certain Doublful Tolal Certin lloublfu Tolal Certain Darblful Tolal

                                                                                                                                                                            J         1 '.12.:1 lt..'7 l~l.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               lJv,p,<>n.,r



                                                                                                                                                                                                                              s 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             d, r       <~-rt!~



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1 1/f.'/ ..r.l.. 14. .t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                    ~-'
I-Astronomical
2-Ain:rafl
3-Li&ftt Pllenom.
4-Binls
                          J
                          .R
                         ,J
                         CJ
                                    ~
                                    ,f
                                    I
                                       0
                                               3 7. R .rL Id
                                              /(,
                                               ?
                                                       :1..~    .,.,_, /Add
                                                       r '- ;?.3 1.4
                                                       · PP (),0           11.o
                                                                                          J
                                                                                         4-
                                                                                          .J          0
                                                                                                       .3
                                                                                                       j
                                                                                                                111-11·
                                                                                                                7 'IQ.J ,f_ I 1/1(;
                                                                                                                3 JJ 0.D i'.J
                                                                                                                e,      P.o
                                                                                                                               ,:,,{.




                                                                                                                                   ,. 0
                                                                                                                                                                t)
                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                 ~
                                                                                                                                                                I)
                                                                                                                                                                           .2

                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                     ;,_ 10.0 //.I 11.t
                                                                                                                                                                                     ;, .r.L .t:L. !;fi
                                                                                                                                                                                     ,, t'-'           I!/"          ,9.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6 4-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /()

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1/t. 7 1// 1.718_

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .7'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ?f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ()0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         O.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ;H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ;;_g
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0 O , ,, .o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              "
                                               0                                         /)
                                                                                                   0                                             0.0                      4          ()  P.IJ PO IP.O                                                           O.o
                                                                "· "·'                                                                                                                                                                               "" /t.7                                I
~louds, Dus~ elc.         /J        0          p   tl.,                                                                                                                              p   /1.(J 11.P Q.O
                                                                                                                                                                "
                                                                                         /]        /)           0       0. ii      0    ,,                                 0                                                  ,t)      0                       P.o       ().O      0.0
                                                                      ()                                                                         "·"
                                             • -? t. ~                                                           I .:J. 7                                       ~                                                                 t
                          .1                                                                                                                 l~."1                                    ~ II.I /J.P //./
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ' ,.,.,,"'·" ,,,,
6-lnsuffic.lnfo.                    0                              1.3
                                                                (). 0                        I         0                           AA                                     t'J                                                          0                                 l').0     /t.1
7-Psycll>lojical          tJ
                                    "          p       0()
                                                       :n.s 0.0
                                                                o.o ().I)                 ~
                                                                                                      "         0
                                                                                                                        ~"         IJ.O          ().(J          0          0         i!I t).D IJ.O d.O                        CJ       0             D                             O.d
8-UnknoMI
                          ,,
                        /t!)            0     /l!J                         ., .. j
                                                                                         6         0            t. IL.2 ().o                     Jt..2          4- tJ                4 .Z,."J o.o :1.1.2                      /,:J     0            /0                   h.0       ,.,_g
9-0ther


    Tolal
                                    0          0


                       :<J // 1~6 M<7 311.(, /QP. :27
                                                       l).O     ,, 0       1/.D       ..2.         I

                                                                                                  10
                                                                                                                3 l.r:4            :2 -,


                                                                                                               3? 11J.ol..?7.o /00, //
                                                                                                                                                 I. I           t)         I          I        .1:, ..t:(,
                                                                                                                                                                                                "·"
                                                                                                                                                                              1 Ii if.I !l.'1 1/QO,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,!P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0                 I :21

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6 3t f3.? /1,.7 /190.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,:J. ()   -7.I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                               Number                Per Cent
                                                                ,fg///lf.. VA VtldL



                                                                               Number                Per Cent                Nurrber               Per Cent                 Number               Per Cml
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                       Certain Doublful Tolal Cerlain lloublful Tolal Cerlain IJo,mlful Tolal Certain Oooblful Tolal Certain Doublful Tolal Certain Doulllful Tolat Certain Doublfu Tolal cerlain Darblful Tola!
0-Balloon                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I    :l         I ? L ? IJ.d
1-Astronomical
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I            J      A.O L.? "· ?
2-Aircraft                                                                                             2.        ,.1    IJ.P       /;J ·-' /,J.J                .r                   6. l..tb           .r., J,.(/            ,,:t.
3-Light Phenom.
4-Birds
S-Clouds. Oust, etc.
6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
                         ?I             I          J   "·"          A.o ,.1.(/           o
                                                                                                  .0
                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                 (J     .. A       ().(1         IJ.O           t)        0
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                            0

                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                         I     ✓.(/


                                                                                                                                                                                               A.()
                                                                                                                                                                                               I).(/
                                                                                                                                                                                                        IJ.P

                                                                                                                                                                                                        I).()
                                                                                                                                                                                                         (}_(J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     f.Q


                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Q.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     "·"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (J)      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     i!)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     t'J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '·"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IJ.(J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ().;,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                P.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IJ.()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         () (I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         d_()

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '·"'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   O.()

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,,,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
7-Psychological
S-Unkno'MI
9-0ther                   0         0          "'      A.P          P.D 1.0              /
                                                                                                   e,
                                                                                                   0            ..2 1..u
                                                                                                                 ,      L.J
                                                                                                                                   P.o a f
                                                                                                                                   1.(/          L.3
                                                                                                                                                                3

                                                                                                                                                                "
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                          ()
                                                                                                                                                                                     I

                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                               P.O

                                                                                                                                                                                               ,.()
                                                                                                                                                                                                        J~o .(o


                                                                                                                                                                                                        '·"          ,. "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ()



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     t!)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /Jj)     /Jp


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               t.? o.o (. '7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
    Tolal

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
     Evaluation
0-Balloon
                         I;/ -<~r;o-ro -$ .t4t,,,,,..,_


                           I
                                  Number


                                   ;i.
                                                     PerCfflt
                       Certain Doublful Total Certain Doubtful Tola!
                                               3 ~'I .{.?                  u             3
                                                                                                    /.;-."/\ M.~ .. ..-,:~
                                                                                                 Number


                                                                                                      3         6 4.d ~A 11..I
                                                                                                                                PerCfflt   Number


                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                        /J,,G"R
                                                                                                                                                                  PerCenl

                                                                                                                                                                                ()
                                                                                                                                                                                         ?,
                                                                                                                                                                                          Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                M ... ,,,,..1:r,-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7).,,,,,,r..--

                                                                                     ertain Doublful Tola! Certain Doublful Total i;ertain IJo,mlful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Dooblful Tolal Certain Doublful Tolal

                                                                                                                                                                                         I L3 l).O .1: ~                      3           I   ,t J~,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,,.,. <--r,,-»


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /.7 /..'I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                               3 ✓.1 1.'I £1.                            ..r                    I. 1.r.t 3. I 111.-,                            -~                             If.I /1.J ~L~ },;J..                                                                ,{J.d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
I-Astronomical                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /.,2 .2.d .7p.?
2-Aircraft               ., (
                         :J._

                          p
                                    I
                                              II 11~3 17.I 11.4                          4-
                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                      4-        k ih.J /:JS 12J~P                               ~              0
                                                                                                                                                                                ~    5
                                                                                                                                                                                     2 ;,.., /)_() 1/A.r                          {;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3              9 11,.~ f l /J.J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ?A_.,


J.lidrt Ph...._                         I      I       0.0          2'1 -1."I            /                 0    I .!I 11.e, .J.I                                <P          .0       &)           0.P 4 (I.ii                                         tJ  11.0
4--Birds                  0         ()         0       ..   A
                                                                    tJ.P 0.0             ()            0
                                                                                                                ,,, il.p p"                      /J.A           tP         ,0        ()  '""
                                                                                                                                                                                         0.17 0.0     ~   0          ().0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,., tJ.o P.P /1.P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ().P      A.O


                                                                                                                                                                                         P,P .u, f.3
                                   .J                       l.t. £'1..                                                  tl.(J                                                        I                                                                                    /,?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
~Clouds,Dust,elc.        0                     ~       /,JJJ                             ,:J           0        0                  "0            0.d                        I                          I) I                                              I      P.I                 /.7
                                              •J                                                                                                                "                     I .s.~ ,., f.l t 0
~lmfflc. lllD.            I         0                  :7.f o., 2.'i
                                                                           ~,            I             0         I     .1.1         l).(J        .J.I           I          0                                                                          t. /(J.l           0.IJ .t~,J




-
7-Psydlolo&ic:al         .1             I      3       .r? ,.?,9                         0             0        ti                  Dp                          /         0          I ✓.3 '9.P ..r.3 I                                0              J /. 7                    I '7
.._                     /0          0        /o        1/U      ti,,, :,""L              ':I          0          9 ;U.1
                                                                                                                        ti.()
                                                                                                                                   P.(J )I.I
                                                                                                                                                 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                ?         0          7 .JL.R A,, .lt.i /..2                            0            /,:J      l.28.?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1).(7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         p-,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I.-, I?7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               """·
                                                                                                                I                                                         I          I II.II .r.3 f.3 0                                I              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                         0
                          0        0           b       .l'J A   If)_()     A.IJ                    /                   /J.P
                                                                                                                                    '-' ,,J I                   0                                                                                              ,{)_()



                                  /t:J ~,j' IL,,. ;4,,_o 11,,,. ;?3                                9           J,. 719 ) f l /lf)_O.                                      4 /9 111/J :?I.I                                             Ii 58 t9.o 3/.o !JhA
   Tolal               3/                                                                                                                                  J.5                             '""-                              4-()




                                                                                                                                222
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
I
I
                                                                                 Ef/,fL //fil'lMi                        t2F         dLL

I           Enl111tion
                                     .J"~eu./~,

                                          Number
                                                                      ,,,.


                               Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                  e;-i,-

                                                                               1---

                                                                               PerCmt
                                                                                                       ,,,, 4r'Z"''
                                                                                                               L- ,,.,
                                                                                                               Number
                                                                                                                                    l?F
                                                                                                                            .St&CANl>J
                                                                                                                                     Per Cent
                                                                                                                                              -;r   ,,-1.A~
                                                                                                                                                              I /- ..J/o --
                                                                                                                                                             Number
                                                                                                                                                                     /
                                                                                                                                                                                      "E/l

                                                                                                                                                                                   Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                            --
                                                                                                                                                                                                           ~I-Le;,
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ~



                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ·-·
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -·

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Per Cent
                                                                                                        ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tot~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,,             "=,:,                   0.4'J~Ars

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       s,,--0..,...,,.

                                 ,,,                                                                                           ., ,,,,,,
I       II-Balloon
        I-Astronomical
        2•Aimaft
        3-Li&f,1Ph010m.
                                13
                                  .,,_
                                             0
                                             /o
                                             C>
                                                       rJ ~(,
                                                      2.J 4-1.1 310 ,~1
                                                       ~
                                                                    11 /11

                                                           rt.ti. /1.() 1,JI.
                                                                       ll.P ;Jt) ap
                                                                                                           Q

                                                                                                          --I
                                                                                                                  t:)
                                                                                                                    n
                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                               0t?t
                                                                                                                                2_ IIA,t)
                                                                                                                                           /J,  4, I

                                                                                                                                       ·/41,j l?M
                                                                                                                               t? ;J_t) ll/l tlt)
                                                                                                                                                 t?d? S-M
                                                                                                                                                                  0       I
                                                                                                                                                                         '1
                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                         ,!)
                                                                                                                                                                             .Ar,     /)

                                                                                                                                                                                      ,?
                                                                                                                                                                                      4-
                                                                                                                                                                                         /}


                                                                                                                                                                                                 lt1
                                                                                                                                                                                                      _:,
                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,,    ~



                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,,!4.g- J'lo 1.12<1
                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,.,         AA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Id.~ 1¢,,t

                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ids
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ...t d I lf:t IR.2. .J't.'7


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (,1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ;l.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,..,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I          -ii, ~,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Q,/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,., ,,_,., 17.Ll
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /f.~       2'7~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ~,
                                  D           D         ~                                                6?         0                                                                 0                                                                                                                               LJ.()



I       4·Birds
        ~Clouds,Ous~ etc.
        6-lnsuffic.tnra.
                                  If)
                                  If)

                                 117
                                             0
                                             0
                                             D
                                                        /)
                                                        (l
                                                        (l
                                                                       ~/l
                                                                        (l.l
                                                                       ,:J.P
                                                                            /J.O /J.t
                                                                                 {J.t) t}_t)
                                                                                  Cf) JJ,t)
                                                                                                         ~
                                                                                                          ,,.
                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                               t? M
                                                                                                                               u ao
                                                                                                                                 /l/,1,t>
                                                                                                                                                  t{/)
                                                                                                                                                  1tJ t;,i
                                                                                                                                                 ll.t? /(),,
                                                                                                                                                            /J,1
                                                                                                                                                                         "
                                                                                                                                                                         A



                                                                                                                                                                         "
                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                     If)

                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                 tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Cl
                                                                                                                                                                                                  I IL(,
                                                                                                                                                                                                             /1/1
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ~A

                                                                                                                                                                                                             /J.()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         tJ,/1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /J."'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         tl.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,:l.t}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ✓1{)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,!J.tJ      "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ID
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /}


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /} tJ tJ.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               t?.0 a CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               lf/,JJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '"'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      t).C)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          tJ.(7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          17.C)
        7-Psycholo1ical          ~           ,:,        t?              tJ.O      M n.d                  ()        0            t? Ill.          /}.t)      t)~          I            e,                                 ". /1          4'1'            ti              0         tJ           /1,/1       l2Ll 12()


I       S.Unkno..
        9-0lher
                                 ~
                                 0
                                             0
                                             0
                                                        1 7.4
                                                        t7             40
                                                                                  M 'J'L,
                                                                                 /J.t?       I//)
                                                                                                         :t
                                                                                                         ,.
                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                   ()
                                                                                                                               .2.. l?l,)J
                                                                                                                               t:J M
                                                                                                                                                 j j '71)/
                                                                                                                                                 /J,{1      tJ.O
                                                                                                                                                                         3
                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                     f)
                                                                                                                                                                                                 J'
                                                                                                                                                                                                  /
                                                                                                                                                                                                            ''~f c?." I4 J'
                                                                                                                                                                                                             u.   fl'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ~" , ✓..,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ~-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               •"/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,     /7/1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            9/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ?./
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IR'.t,

            Total               J?          /0 .:t7 l/.3.ti 31.tJ /!)rJ,                                 (j        I          ID !ft.ti /1.t} 1/v't:                 J,1              1          ~I ILi,? JH IM.                                        L              s          I/ S-4!' 4r,.r 1¢.

I
    I




                                   LI.,.,___ ,~ • _,; ~,.urr-•                                                    L - ,_ M,,✓,,---                                                   Ovr~                                                                    -,.,11-.,,~r,•H' M r .,.._                         T f' ll


I
                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,_ M1N11'P"'""-•

    I Evaluation                          Number             Per Cent                 Number                PerC01I                 Nunter                PerC01I                 Number               PerCtllt
                               Certain Doobtful Total Certain Ooubtfu I Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Ooubtfu Total Certain Doubtful Tota
        0-Balloon                 .1         .,              '>        '1.; t.1 115:Z                     t         0           ., 11(.3 17, () 1✓..1                      ?               I      ,,I         1d ,;, I 11.t,,;                                  I       .J-         t, I. 3 l..t. 1.9
        I-Astronomical            ,J        .:J          4       t. I /.t.t lo
                                                                       £..I                                         0              1:1.u ,.,,,, In.~                     7            ?          H7 121.4                 od .?/.J' J,!                                 II        2.ti '1$.1 N.r 3fi'.2
                                                                                                                              "'
I       2-Aircraft
        Hi&f,IPh010m.
        4-Birds
                                  4
                                  d
                                  (JI
                                             .:J
                                              0
                                                        11 l.n 3 £.,/ YN
                                                         /7

                                                        Cl             n/1
                                                                             3
                                                                       ,., ,., /J,/J 'l"
                                                                                 IJ,/J lo.o
                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                          (?       0
                                                                                                                    0  ' ,,      9 7/ 14,a 2,/,/J
                                                                                                                                    I 2.4        ,,,,.,
                                                                                                                                        tJ,() /J,tJ tJ,()
                                                                                                                                                           -?§
                                                                                                                                                                         1

                                                                                                                                                                         ",,,
                                                                                                                                                                                      .2
                                                                                                                                                                                     :]

                                                                                                                                                                                     ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                  ¢' /.;J.

                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                      2, /J. /}
                                                                                                                                                                                                              /1 /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          L :2,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /} /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               z



                                                                                                                                                                                                                               lltJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            14/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.,:2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I      ·11 C/.7

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /1       ,,,,., .a.o t:J.Cl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (),0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           J.3

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /J.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1/J,!fi


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          l?C)
        5-Cloud~ Dus~ et~
                                              D
                                                        Cl            17,()      ,.,   /)          ,,              I                   /J,tJ 2.4' 2,/./                  A                        (7          /J./1            ,,,,.,                       t)                     tJ                      tJ. (7

I
                                  0          ()                                              /1.CI                               I                                                    (I                                  /J."                                          0                      '!"                        17.0
        6-lnsuffic.lnfo.          4          0          g             l?_J       A-         1,~.1         .1       0           .?      '7./      ,2,'J      ,f./          ...,        0           ,,.,       4/./         tJ/1               n,         /o              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,,,, Ji, r-?/J /.1'.:2.
        7-Psychological           t)          0         Cl tJ.Cl         O.tJ    aa                        I       ()           I .2,d           ".,,, f1..U              I           0           I            ?I         /1, /)              :! I          ,!J         0          c:, /J,Cl               Ll. /) 12 /7
        8-UnknoMI                 ~          0          _,;- /J:.J t1.0 /5.:2,
                                                                  I                                      I.I      ()           II l-1/,i        /?,()     U.2            ,i-          0          5           1$'.6.       ,.,~ l/.c;t: -<I                              0         :2,/ 21.L                /JO            '1'1t.
                                 4-                     d ,~./ tJ,(J it.I                                                                                                .r                       t, /.5:6                                              .,2                        ~           :u
I
        9-0lher                              0                                                            ()       ()          ()      O,b       17..t) 0.(7                          I                                   2,/               /~?                                                             /1/,)         .2.£
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        "
            Total              c:?1          I. JJ 31.3 Ill.~ IIJ(J. 3:f                                           ? 14.:t i~.3 1(..7 1ltJ(l. .l3                                     9 $). 11.4 U.1 I,,,,, .r'1                                                       /1         '7(, 11 t, J2.4 ltJtJ.



I
                            fdl{t.E                  ,9/(t)
                                                                                 rt?.e-                '1nA ~ -r /()f',               /1,:'     <:'/~ M-r,A, ,,-

                                                                                                                                      -:-~,.- _,,_ .
                                                                                                                                                                                     ,,.,,~=•'                    A-           --   ,                  ,,,             ,-,,~tf:A/                        ,,,,.Jct!rs
                                         .s s-~,,,.,,                   A~       Le.••                            L-IA                                                               II- :,0               ,_, __ , . A ,                                             ~ / - ,,_              .s..-(!·      ,.

                                           Number           Per Cent                 Number                Per Cent               Nuntler               PerCtllt                Number               PerCmt
             Evaluation        Certain Doubtful Tobi Certain Ooubtfu I Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Toi~ Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Ooubtfu Total Certain Doubtful Tot~


I       0.Balloon
         I-Astronomical
                                  ,tl
                                 31 _.-2
                                              t}             tJ t'J./J
                                                        fl_! 'H3
                                                                                 /J. /) /10
                                                                                s-s.tl ~9,2,
                                                                                                          (?
                                                                                                           I       14
                                                                                                                       0        t:J
                                                                                                                               /,<'
                                                                                                                                       .t),() /J,t) (),O
                                                                                                                                       d J Ut              .v
                                                                                                                                                                          tJ
                                                                                                                                                                          1            ).
                                                                                                                                                                                          0           /')

                                                                                                                                                                                                      (}'
                                                                                                                                                                                                             a" ,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                             So.o /t1..a ~.,:.
                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,,,_,,,, '1, I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               /)           ,,, Cl          ti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ()



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0 P,/J Ll. /7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       / IZ.7 ,,,_,, l/6.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          a t7

        2-Aireraft                ,;2
                                                 " ,Z ,t.2           ?.Z         /7, t)                    I            0        I 4.G" LJ.() I,(<
                                                                                                                                                                          " <>            I           /                     "',/                            t7           0                                  /././?         /J,/l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ~/}

                                                       ,., ,., ,?.0 14o'                                                                                                                           ,, t'-A /1./J /{t}                                        ,P          ()                                /), tJ         ao
I
        3-Li&f,1Ph010m.                                                                                                         Cl /1.0 ,a,~ 0."                          ,!J                                                                                                      /1               /1

                                   "
                                             ()          Cl                                                0        D                                                                                                                                                                           A

        4-Birds                   t)          0          0                       /1,0        ,,.,,,,       ,.,      0           /J /?,/J o. Cl t). 0                      ~           0           0           /7,()      /J./7 !,<i,-,                      ,,                     0            ,,., ,,     ,<!/J         A,,,


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        "
                                                                      I)/)
                                                         Cl            ,,,,,     ,., ,., ,, ,,            0                                                                                           ,., /4" ,,_,,,                                        0           0          ()                                     Ll.tJ
        ~ds,Oust.etc.
                                  "                                                                                                              '1,t) Cl,"
                                             0                                                                     t}           ()     /1.(J                             t)           ()                                                     A-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ".P          /J.O
                                                         ~                                                I                     I      d&:       /1,t) ;(5               p                                  ,,.,.,:::,                      ,,,.,.,                                I //7 /l.d /1.:.;
                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,,,,., atJ
        6-lnsuffic.tnfo.          ;2.        0                         -?,1      0."         '1,Z                  D                                                                  ()         /J                                                          I           0
                                                                                                                               Cl I ,7_.o                                            e,                                                                         ,..                   ,.,,., b.0 /J.tJ
I
        I-Psychological           0          0          ,:7            tJ,O L)IJ atJ                      t)       0                             /J,/; l.o.o             /?                       Cl               /1            /J         .,,A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         l!1       tJ
        II-Unknown                4           ()        ,/            1-.~  /} /,) l ✓ .1                .r
                                                                                                                   "           5" ;21,7          /1, /}    ,;~,;         ,:J,         0           ¢
                                                                                                                                                                                                             ~-           tJ.t) l?V                         ,tJ,        0          ;/ f27..'1 IJ.CI II.I. 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,.,,,
                                     I           I      ~              I.I                  1..Z          0                    tJ 14,:                                   ()           0                                                      ao                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       " ",,
                                                                                                                                                                                                               A,
        9-0ther                                                                                                                                            o.;:,                                  Cl
                                                                                 I./                               0                             ,?,,?                                                                     /-?"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            "                                               /),,




                               14'0 S3 9.3 144.o 5'70 la>.                                                8 14 ,l). I.U,G /.,3,/. I//J,i                                             -~                     rn., 4-4                                    ---;;.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         " 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,,pp., tJ, (7 Ilt1t?

I                                                                                                                                                                    I/                          14                                     ltJtJ.
            Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,_ --d,. ,-,._,
                                             <~,. ·'I>-< •$ N,,fu-•                                                ~ - :,,.,          M,A/,, ~~-
                                     £. I                                                                                                                                             /Jv~~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                "                             ,., -       .S-1,22r,..l>


I            Evaluation
        0.Baltoon
                                           Number            Per Cent

                                                                       -¥ I
                                                                                      Number               Percent

                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                   Nu-                   Per Cent                Number
                               Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total i;ertain Doubtful Tobi Certain Doubtful Total tertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tota
                                     I       C)          I                        tJ. tJ '1'1
                                                                                                                        ,.,      I 4,/ t7.d Q.I                                  I         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Per Cont

                                                                                                                                                                                                          I 1/1,;          A-           111.:,'                 ,?         ,,.,        ()       /) /I       /). tJ        IJ.Cl
         I-Astronomical            CJ         I              I         'l"        7:1         ?./
                                                                                                           .,      -~           #  9. I :J?JI/ ?t.t.                         I            C)          /       " ,, ,,,, ,, ·" 7                                        ., 7 :Llf "°.I 41.tJ 1-t,;-~

I
                                                                                                           I
         2-Aircrlft                t'J       t.              ~                  4:i..'I ¢1'.4                                   z /f,:J ~,, l1w>:1                                         t:)        I       /l -,       ti.,,             IL.,,                I       2         .?           /,9         .u· 6..f
                                                                                                                    ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,,, ,1,6
                                                                       /I /1                                                                                                 /                                                          I




        3-LithtPhenom.                                                            ,,,.,, ,,.,,,,         ~                      :z, 1~1,         At/) 1/~:t                  ()                                           /2 /1· -~'                                                   /J                             l.atJ
                                                                                                                    "
                                   ()        0           t)            /1,,                                                                                                                                                                                     ()       0                      A_/7       / } /,)

                                   ,,                  .0                        .,,,,., ,,,,,           ()                                     /?(?        .,,,,          p              "                               ,,   /)             ,,,,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -~ L
        4-Birds                              0                         I?()                                            0        /?        A/.                                          0              /1       /1 /J                                         ()         0              " tJ. t?            l'J./J 1/7.Ll
                                                                                 ,,,,, tl.t)               p                                                                                              '? /} ,, ,.,                                                                         ,,_,., I 17,/? /2/J
                                                                                                                    " ,., l,?,A ~ la ✓?                                                                                                                     ()                         /,
        5-Clouds. Oust. etc.                            0              t:ltJ                                                                    /J,tl l4t?                                        (7                                                                    0

I
                                             0                                                                                                                                        0
        6-lnsuffic. •to.
                                  L?
                                   I         0           I             ~/        ,,_,.,       1' I        t)        0                           /J,/7 l.l)A               "II         ()              ,,, /1. ,1 /J.Cl "?"                                              0               L 1,.f"             /1/1 1/P.6'
        7-Psycholo&ical           /)                    tJ             /1/J      /J. L) latJ              p        0            d      .,, ,., /1. /J 1120                0           0               d       ,.,/}       /1 A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A.Cl            ()          ()             .,,     /l/J         ,/1,?     l/1,.o
                                                                                                                                                                                      ,,,
        &-Unkno..                 4          "'"         I.I :ll.l,
                                                                       '7,/
                                                                                  ,,,.,, 1.......
                                                                                               ,;,;       ,
                                                                                                          ,,J      e,           :Z,    I~-? /J J"J
                                                                                                                               t:l In,,:;        /1 /}
                                                                                                                                                           ;,:t,
                                                                                                                                                          ,,,   ()
                                                                                                                                                                          3                       -:,
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                             .JI A        t7.,1       l~o d.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (;1        4' -1.t>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I           J,Jl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /1/J        'f.t:l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          11

I
                                   I                                                                                                                                      (7                                              4 Cl                                                                             tU)
                                            "
                                                                                                                                                                                                               AA
        9-0lh"                                           /                       /1(:J                              ()                                                                0                                                      12 Cl                      0

            Tot~                  1          1 14 J'#,0 .ro.o IM/1                                        J        .3         II 1:n -<1.3 /t1t).                         I,         0            6 lip&,, tJ.() w.                                    a,g             'J.9       f7 IJ/9, I J°d'i I/,,,,,


I                                                                                                                                               223


I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                     Plll'L£

                         ,S 5,.,._.,,~
                                         Al.ff

                                                         A-
                                                                 ,&'OR
                                                                    fen
                                                                                        ,,,.,,.,-,p,v
                                                                                                 6·/0
                                                                                                                   -,,=-

                                                                                                                     "'---     -·
                                                                                                                                    s.,r-.H-r/,1/G
                                                                                                                                     .,.. ...
                                                                                                                                                         ,
                                                                                                                                                                   ,.,~ /~,!:
                                                                                                                                                                   //-       ,_
                                                                                                                                                                                             AO       ,:;~,::,,W//[/~
                                                                                                                                                                                          -,-....,-,,,D~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,,,,,;,rt=
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                J/-Lo ,,,.,.,o-V'D.C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              "7A'.JE~T.S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                              rt,-                  Pa Cent                 Numbet                Pe.Cent                                                       Number                Per Cent                Number
      Evaluatilln
0-Ballooo
!l·AsllOIIOlllical
                      c.rtain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total ~ertain Doubtful Tolal Certain Doubtful Tola!

                       J 3 4 l.o JI ✓;
                      J/ .J.3 M· V(. n1 ~!>.l
                                                      ,.,                                 i
                                                                                           0
                                                                                                  q
                                                                                                      I         I /1.0 ;;,.I, .t.t.
                                                                                                             /7 I.JI/ .2.3.1 f'.(,1
                                                                                                               q 1111.f ti.~ tf.1 '7
                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                      ,f
                                                                                                                                                         ertain Doubtful Tolal Certain Doubtful Total Certain D"'btlul Tola! Cerlain Doubtful Total

                                                                                                                                                                     ~

                                                                                                                                                                     ,,
                                                                                                                                                                     .:7
                                                                                                                                                                               1 2.1 4.2 .r...J'
                                                                                                                                                                              /0 //,. 7 4.2 2().9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,'I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         _,- 4-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         :J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I 17.0 ;J£ :2-%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4 .S.6 .r: t. I/. :t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                q ,~.9 Ill 26.'tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
2-Aircraft              4-          1 II                          1.1 I/. t. 4-                   .I                                                                          14 l4J. 14./. :zu.
3-Lilht Phenom.
4-Birds
                        tJ
                         I
                                :2
                                    I
                                              :l
                                              :J
                                                      8.11
                                                      l.o
                                                                 ~D     j'.tJ
                                                                  I. o :UJ
                                                                              I
                                                                              /1
                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                I 2.6 o.o £./, p
                                                                                                               f) Po .o.o      ,,_n   p
                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                  "
                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                           '·" -, I 2.1
                                                                                                                                                                                           11,0 ().0 ,9.()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           l          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0     0        lf/.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4 ! ..? .2.f I/. I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (). 0     /J.P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
S-Clouds, Dus~ et~
6-lnsuffic. • .,.       " ,, "
                         ~
                                 0
                                              -~
                                                      t'J.,O
                                                      .I, I
                                                                  17. () t?.L?
                                                                  ,fJ 0         ~/        J
                                                                                           Cl
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                  0           0 tJ.o P.o t:1.tJ
                                                                                                               ? -,q A.n '/:9        5
                                                                                                                                      tJ                            tJ
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                  0        ()_()

                                                                                                                                                                              .$' /t,.4 tJ.o IP.~
                                                                                                                                                                                                   11.0 ,:?.tJ            ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,.,        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0        n /),(J .0,() ,:?.,::,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               L. 1/t.7 t). 0 l t f
7-Psydlolo~cal
8-llnltnown
9-Dlller
                         "
                        x'
                        .!
                                 0
                                 0
                                 I
                                              0
                                              i
                                              4
                                                       tJ.o P.o
                                                      £:i. o.o
                                                      .1 f /.0
                                                                                o.O I.)
                                                                                1.£. '7
                                                                                ,// 0
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                               .,
                                                                                                              tJ 11.D 0.-0 ~o
                                                                                                                  I f.4- 0.a IV/ J)
                                                                                                               0 11.o O.o      t::IP ,;l..
                                                                                                                                                             "
                                                                                                                                                                    0

                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                              I.J :71 I
                                                                                                                                                                               .:l. 4.l
                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                   "·" 27.t /,;z. t::J
                                                                                                                                                                                                   AO
                                                                                                                                                                                                   00
                                                                                                                                                                                                           17.,::,

                                                                                                                                                                                                           4:l            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ()

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              J:l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,::,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tJ.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       33.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Oo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   l?O ?2_..T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             t:?.tJ

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            tl.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
     Tola!            SI       41 91 S2.D 14tt>llnn .J.4 I f .U ,,,,J, J'l.J' /p,1, Jt,                                                                             I~ 4-f 1.r:f? ,U:o //)II                           ~,            g        ,!{, 1'11.I 2,2. .1 /.::V.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
I Evaluation
                        L. I Sc,.-,,.,.-.,,. - S N~_,.,
                              Number                Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                     b-3o
                                                                                                  PeiCett
                                                                                                                      ,V.,,,.,.-.,r&r

                                                                                                                          Nunl>er               Pe, Cent
                                                                                                                                                                   /.l,e-,,. ~, #/#u-u
                                                                                                                                                                        Number
                      Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tolal Certain Doubtful Total Ceflain D"'btful Total Certain Doubtful Tolal Certain Doubtlut Total Certain Doubtfu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ~,,,..,.,,..,,,,,.          Vnr       J'-rnr"'h
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PerCalt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Total Certain DINlbtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
 ll-Balloon            It. /<? .JJ' 1.r.4 ;f_.; 'lI.7 l.t I f -?.1 JL.4 J.5.1.. ,,;,,,,, In                                                                          ..1       I~          1._4 (,,J 21..5                l.r            (. 1 I II.I 41 /,(.<
 l•Astnmomical
 2-Aircraft
 3-Li&ht Phenom.
                       J ..3 & 2.9 2 'l 5.l JI ,1. 1.r lo.o
                       II 9 2.o /(J (. ?. 7 119..1 4 14 /9 J.t:. 12.1 11...1 ,).
                        p   0   ()  tJ.o O.o /J.P ~ .1- 7 /.f 4.1- /..J
                                                                                /f.t /;l.

                                                                                         ./)
                                                                                                                                     .u.                              .I /7 Jd,f 111.2 .14;7 ;f
                                                                                                                                                                     .3 .r 4.1 t.. I It?.£ /2
                                                                                                                                                                     ,?           t)       1/.(J   0.0 t7.tJ               ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .>- / '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         q 11 14.1 1./ 2/.f

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        t?.I .J.9 !.?...7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ti.•       11.0    tJ.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
 4-Birds                 ~       0            ()                  o.P           L?6        t,     0                    ,f}/)                                 t}     0                                                                                               o.o t?t?
                                                                                                                                                                                  ,, tJ.o
                                                      () (J                                                    ()                    t'J(J       tJ.()                         0           A.o     tJ.o    t}.t:J         t)         0          t)      1/.Q
 5-CIOuds.Oust.etc.
 6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
 7-Psyclllloaical
                         0
                       ..r
                         I
                                3
                                0
                                I
                                               q An
                                              J-
                                                      "'
                                                2 l.o IA :J.p ,-
                                                                  :7 'I
                                                                 11. t}
                                                                                :J 9
                                                                                l'/.i
                                                                                           ,!7
                                                                                           9
                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                               t)

                                                                                                               'I i"l
                                                                                                                           A.o

                                                                                                              J- ti,- t}.O {(5
                                                                                                                                     '·" £1,
                                                                                                                                         A.O
                                                                                                                                     ().tJ   ,.,
                                                                                                                                                             p
                                                                                                                                                              A     0
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                     0         "D tl,o
                                                                                                                                                                                   "·"
                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                   "·"
                                                                                                                                                                                                           /,1,:7
                                                                                                                                                                                                        t?.L?
                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                              :J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       :..u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .lJ Ii.I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3 /.t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        n           0-0 ,:)./j
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   tl. {? Ii.I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    M £.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
8-Unkno'MI             Jtl,      0           ,,2 'I 21.4 tJ.t? '279 ~I                               0       .2.J 1111, I
                                                                                                                      11.o If. I                         /;l.        0        l;l.        lf4,J    tJ.o 2¥,, ,4                      0        :l.9 2d              tJ.tJ rtZ.fi
9-0tfler



' Total
                         4-     0               d Ji tJ.o .r. g ;,..                              0            .2.     u            tl.o

                      t9 3$ 104 ti.3 .U.1 /tJ(J, 1,< 3% I/lo t.a .J(.J /(}ti. Ji JI 41 17.f.. i:J2.4 lt>a /tlC, 21 11.21 tu //,f I/IP.
                                                                                                                                                 1.x         ,:l     0        .:z. 4.t             tJ.o    Q,/            t.         0           t 4.'7 t).O                4'.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                             .,;' <'.L"A~"
                                                                t=t//1t...L/6Tlt2Ai
                                                                 ,:-,,,,,

                                                              -- / ,,,.,.,,,.
                                                                                  .<?. ••
                                                                                                      (2.C      UAIIT
                                                                                                                -,,c

                                                                                                 ,( -/() S. c• · " J
                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                                                    S/Glz'.Vh'.65
                                                                                                                                      .. , , ,
                                                                                                                                               ,
                                                                                                                                                 ..                 FCJ,e
                                                                                                                                                                               Mt:-r.4/U,'
                                                                                                                                                                   //-~,, .f°(rtAM.b,J'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       UlJ,C-'-rS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .,,_,!,,     s--,.,.,,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                              Number                Per Cent                 Number                 PerCe11t                Number                Per Cent                Number                                                                                 Per Cent
      Evaluation
 0-Balloon
 I-Astronomical
                      Certain Doobtful Total Certain Doubtful Tolal Certain llotd>tlul Total Certain Doubtful Tola! Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu

                        o2
                          I          I
                                         I
                                              2
                                               J        q, 4.r I.it
                                                       A.J        4. ~-         9/J
                                                                                           ?)
                                                                                           tJ
                                                                                                  ,.1
                                                                                                  :J
                                                                                                               2
                                                                                                               :J
                                                                                                                       AO
                                                                                                                       P. IJ
                                                                                                                                     ,,, ,· /t:15
                                                                                                                                    ,,. , ,,i.5              ~
                                                                                                                                                              I      4-
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                  J- l'l 1.4
                                                                                                                                                                                  1 1? /7.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                f..1
                                                                                                                                                                                                               J-7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,,1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ..:l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Total Certain DINlbtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4 4'1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I      ,P.tl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   t/-.9 1/.f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2.4 P4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
 2-Aircraft             ..L ,t                f'       q, l.:11.J 5'1.-~                   1-        I         q .th.1 r.3 f(/~ /9 ;( .u· Jr.2 ,29.1, t4/Ji
                                                                                                               I ,,,. .r: t £?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /J               7 .1 :z        ~-' .2.4 111.1 6I.7
 3-Li&filPh"""'.
 4-Birds
 S-Cloud~ Dust, et~
                          I
                          I
                         tJ
                                 0
                                 0
                                    0         I

                                              0
                                                  I
                                                       f...r (1.0 q5
                                                       4.J         11.0
                                                        11.11 ,.o '7.,:7
                                                                                ✓.5
                                                                                           0
                                                                                           0
                                                                                           n
                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                  <)
                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                               (J


                                                                                                               ,0
                                                                                                                       /J,D
                                                                                                                           /J.I
                                                                                                                                 /) r,

                                                                                                                                 /2.tJ
                                                                                                                                       ii /J,, P.11 dt)
                                                                                                                                     tJ."
                                                                                                                                     IJ.o
                                                                                                                                                 -1-"         ()
                                                                                                                                                             ()      0
                                                                                                                                                                         0        0
                                                                                                                                                                                  ()
                                                                                                                                                                                           ,,,,, tJ" t?.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                           ti.II   tl.(J       /J n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I :U•
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                t;J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        o,o

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A (J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   tJ.t.J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,.o 4,:J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             :J.<I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .JU,      I
 6-lnsuffic.lnfo.        I      0             I       d.1' 0.&I ¢:5                         I     0                    .r,J ()., 5.5'                        I        CJ              I    1.9     ~-0     /.P           ,,2.        0           A.     d t;       tJO      ~9
 7-Psycholorical
 &-Unknown
9-0ther
                        3
                         I

                        ,,;.
                                 0
                                 0
                                (1
                                              3
                                              ~
                                               I       tJ.j' /1.0 <(5
                                                      /J.I, () t) I.U,
                                                       q_ I IJ 0 9./
                                                                                           ,,
                                                                                           4-
                                                                                           I?
                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                  ,0

                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                               (J

                                                                                                               4 :u.1
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                       tJo no tJ.t?

                                                                                                                           b.o
                                                                                                                                     I>()

                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                Lv.l
                                                                                                                                                1/.P
                                                                                                                                                             ,j

                                                                                                                                                             I'
                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                     t;J
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                         I         J
                                                                                                                                                                                  k 141
                                                                                                                                                                                  (}
                                                                                                                                                                                           ?.7

                                                                                                                                                                                           (J,Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                   /.'I .5.£.
                                                                                                                                                                                                   /}.<J

                                                                                                                                                                                                   00
                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                           /</JI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,t)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                          9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     e,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,:,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tl. ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1, (J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.4 P. 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   O.o      17,o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /). () i ,;-,_(?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            _t'.¢.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
     Total            14         ,f ..2-Z ILH .Jt4                          ,,..          /3         (p      ;,; tf4 j/.i., tOA 33 .:</ 5,,. /,/; jf.9 ft}(). 3o II                                                                           41 13.2 ;1a I/Pd.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
      Evaluation
                          /,.,/ .<'oC'co#.OJ'- S' ,41.,,r~r,r.,
                              Number                PerCmt
                      Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                  L- Io
                                                                                                Number
                                                                                                                      U • ./_,r"
                                                                                                                      Per Cent
                                                                                         ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                    Ov.-,,e ~ ,
                                                                                                                                                                Number
                                                                                                                                                                                             ,U

                                                                                                                                                                                      Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,,,.vr/:
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           7t.,~.,.. .... ·- ./
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                         ertain Doubtful Total certain Doubtful Total certain D1>1btful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ✓.,..       _r,:..., ,IF,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
 0-BallOOII             Ii          ? .Ji .,;;') f.4 l?tl.l :u                                    /0         '1 I ::1.1:1 l:?.D .17.1 .f                                 .~ JI             :JL?    Joo     7/_ 7         /?          s        I(, 14.4 13 11'1
 1-Astronomical
 2-Aircraft
 3-Li&ht Phenom.
                         J
                       l..l
                         I
                                 0
                                /D
                                    I
                                             ,H /.[. 7 /? 0 ??:?
                                              .)
                                                  I    h           o.o ;.t.

                                                       /. 2 /.2 $1.4
                                                                                           ii
                                                                                           t:;
                                                                                           t'J
                                                                                                  1€)
                                                                                                      I

                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                I I.O /.2. /..Z. .J
                                                                                                              ,q IIJ.i /,2.Q 22.'1 ..1.
                                                                                                                I &.o I. 2 /.:l 0
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                         /        4
                                                                                                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                           /0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                           t. 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                   -?.~    /<.<
                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                               tl.O t.7 ,;lo
                                                                                                                                                                                           ,.o ,.o (J.t} I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4 1.4 ~?.2. 4.4 21,.I.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4 I.I .U 4(/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   f    /./         ,It)     /./
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
 '4Birds                 I       0                I     /2 p 0 /,2,                         /)       0         ()   t).(I o.o atJ     I?
                                                                                                                                                                     "            0        /Jo     o.tJ P.t?              t:J        I           I      t).O        II       I.I
 ~Clouds, Dus~ etc.
 S.lnsuffic. tifo.
 7-Psydlololical
                         CJ

                         "I     0
                                 " c::
                                 0
                                               0

                                               I
                                                       0.0
                                                      1.1 D.o
                                                      /.2 o.o
                                                                  "·" t?.tJ
                                                              /.t,.
                                                                                7(:2,
                                                                                           CJ
                                                                                            9
                                                                                            I
                                                                                                  tJ
                                                                                                     0


                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                               0   (l.() o.o (?.,:J

                                                                                                               'i lh.J D.O ltl.$ /)
                                                                                                               I           M        "-"
                                                                                                                                       J



                                                                                                                                          ;.:2, -2
                                                                                                                                                 ,q
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                   I

                                                                                                                                                                                  ".,
                                                                                                                                                                                           ~ ~

                                                                                                                                                                                           ,!J.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                   o.o 7~
                                                                                                                                                                                                   P.o '°!"
                                                                                                                                                                                           f.? OIi L._;f     J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ....,..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0         0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .26 ~.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '·" tJ.o 122.t.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I.I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   tJ,q


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (},tJ  ;.I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             t:J.p

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
 1-UN<nown            J~            ()       ,lo ,2¢.1 IJ.t! ~41                          /.J"       0       1,-      Iii           (/.()     I /d                   0            'l      Jo.o t).O ..7120 /t                        0        1/, IU               tl.o /;f ff
9,0ther


     Total
                         I

                      &.2 ,2/
                                ~             4 /.;J. .J.t. ~K

                                             ~J d4.1 :U:J                   /(JP,
                                                                                           4-
                                                                                         .rt?
                                                                                                  .2           & 4.1 .1.tl

                                                                                                 .:uJ J.1 1'1/,/ )/.'i 1a>.
                                                                                                                                                 7. 2,       ~


                                                                                                                                                         .2.t'
                                                                                                                                                                     I            I

                                                                                                                                                                    .5 .fo h.-? IL.7 /t),1,
                                                                                                                                                                                           ,t)t) 3.3 S.l 7                           0          7 7.f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        111 II t?o i1.f /).,2 IA~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.11      'f   <J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                               224
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
I
I
                                                                                               -
I           Evaluation
                                       .5 .St5't!o~ .l>s ~~ ./,r- -
                                        Number                Per Cent
                                                                            ,:-,,,,,,



                                Certain Doubtful Total Certain OoUbtful Total
                                                                                                        A




                                                                                                     Number
                                                                                                            ~ - ✓-
                                                                                                                                   A=             C'.'"✓/" Ll'r_ ✓ A



                                                                                                                             s . . - , O A , / ~ <'


                                                                                                                           Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                                                                                        ,,,,.

                                                                                                                                                                            , J/-_,?,o
                                                                                                                                                                         Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                               /J"'.IFt!r

                                                                                                                                                                                                 Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,,A


                                                                                                                                                                                                         s'°<"',-,., ✓ lH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A,&




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Per Cent
                                                                                              ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total Certain Doubtful Tot~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A,/Jr

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V-60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .~r~-re-/1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      --         -~.
I   r
        ~Bolloon
        l•Astronomical
        2-Aircrlft
                                  e:?
                                 II
                                  ,t
                                             C
                                                 I

                                                 I
                                                     ·"
                                                        I /1,() .J,4 :)It
                                                      17 H~ -'A, 1 51(.t.
                                                          IH .J.4 11'1                          2
                                                                                                 /
                                                                                                 r
                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                        ,:,2-
                                                                                                                         6 ].f.?              .,,
                                                                                                                                   1.1 1.1 /Ai;j_

                                                                                                                         ,q 1¢.J 1/ Lz,/,,4'
                                                                                                                                                      VM.:,'
                                                                                                                                                                       I)

                                                                                                                                                                       a.
                                                                                                                                                                        ✓
                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                      4-
                                                                                                                                                                                                 I P.o 2.9 _Lj
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                 S' //,'i 2:11 I~
                                                                                                                                                                                                   114.1 II.I %,5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3         ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -<
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /~.Cl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ..7 1_;,17 f.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4-. () Ht)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ?Jtl!


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ?12/J
        3-LighlPhenom.            0          Q        {) ()() IJ.O    /!I'.                     (/          ,0           I) oo ().17 tJ.t                              L)        ,0              t} ().()           o.o       JI)       ,n        0          {/        /) ()      /1.o        /J /,


I       4-Birds
        ~Clouds, Dust, etc.
        6-lnsuffic.tnfg.
                                  0
                                  I)

                                  .r
                                             0

                                             ()
                                                0
                                                       t) 0.0 () d
                                                       t?    11,o
                                                                     ~/J
                                                                        d.o
                                                      s-- 111..J 1.0 /7,;L
                                                                                    t?,t)
                                                                                                ,1
                                                                                                ,,.
                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                            CJ
                                                                                                             (J

                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                        I)
                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                  11.d 0.17
                                                                                                                                  ti.fl
                                                                                                                            I 11 0.0
                                                                                                                                             I), 0
                                                                                                                                                        tJ.tJ
                                                                                                                                                        IJ.t)
                                                                                                                                                         7,/
                                                                                                                                                                       ,'J
                                                                                                                                                                       t)
                                                                                                                                                                       -:,
                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                     t!7
                                                                                                                                                                                                 I/ 11 ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                 /
                                                                                                                                                                                                 7 1~... ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,.o :t.'f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.0       t?~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   11.0 l-11.1~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /'J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,;z_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             tfl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             t)        "·'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1/.d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        f.D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  () ()

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /J. O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (),()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ~/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               /J.J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1,t)
        7-Psycholo1ical           I)        ()        I)     /A         ll tJ       t'.t?        /7          0          0         ()()       ().()      t?_/)          0          0              0 o.o             ().0       tP./J     lb       0           tJ        A.II       Al D         t1.o

I       a.unknown
        ~Qt!,e,
                                  I
                                   /J       0
                                             0         I 3.4
                                                      t?     O.o
                                                                        1.0
                                                                        1.0
                                                                                    :ill-
                                                                                    t:Pt
                                                                                               :1
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                            C7
                                                                                                            n
                                                                                                                        :L 114.3 ().0 /#,'3 4-
                                                                                                                         f) ().() .. 0 /J{) ..t.
                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                 J.   -
                                                                                                                                                                                                ,¥- Ill.I "1,0 11,f
                                                                                                                                                                                                 7 .rq ut.7 11 /J~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,t'!)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ~to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /)_I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /J /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             lfl.JJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A//,



                                                                                                                       14 7!.I. ,l/.9- 100. 1. 2                                                                                                          l.2r 1'.c 124. D /tl/1.

I
            Total                :l!        i        ,1."/ ~-4 ,17;_ /Ill.                    II             3                                                                  I).            !4 U.1 .U3 /()()                       /(/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '
                                   61                             5' ~#VP_..,                               6•3LJ ;1/,..,.. r ~ ,                                               t!?vc"J>         .!, 1 NI, ,r,.1                        ")\
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -       .,.._ -    .<,-.... ,-,...z,


I
                                           5..-h~A,          •

                                        Number                Per Cent                Number                Per Cent                Nunler                Per Cent                Number                                                                                 PerCmt
             Evaluation         Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu                                                                   Total Certain Doobtful Total
        II-Balloon                I :J        -<' /7 /1'1 '1. J" -!l..',JJ  ,I                               12.        .2/) ,,., r l.[.K LU.3                         j,..           ,  71/1 4 ;,2, V,f,'..6 /3    ? :ZI} t.l H 'l's
        I-Astronomical             /?          I   I /J/J l.r ;,; 4                                           ~          I, J'":3 j,t, 7?                              ,.--           I ,; llo.4 ,1, / IA-~ p; ;; .II-/ / ( r, f.1 NS

I       2-Aircraft
        3-Li&fllPha,om.
                                   9
                                  ,;)__
                                            ..., //2 //.4 ;o.4 ~3.f /:2.
                                              I    .1 _1 () /.S
                                                                 o..
                                                                           t)       .,,.,                    .r
                                                                                                             ,.0
                                                                                                                        17 /J'f /,_/,. I.Z2,1
                                                                                                                         tJ A /1 /1,0 /1.tJ                            A
                                                                                                                                                                        I         .J
                                                                                                                                                                                   /J
                                                                                                                                                                                      /f- :!. I ,.2 '/..=J 17 II '3S I. I 1, 1/,0
                                                                                                                                                                                       () IJl           /Jn   .t ::J ,JI. lo l.o ..2.,/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    "·"'
        4-Birds
        I-Cloud~ [)us~ etc
                                   .t)
                                  I)
                                            ()

                                            0
                                                      0
                                                      /)     On
                                                                        0.()

                                                                        0,,
                                                                                    tJ.tJ
                                                                                     /,),()
                                                                                                ,IJ
                                                                                                 I           0
                                                                                                                 I       I
                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                  II.fl
                                                                                                                                  I. i
                                                                                                                                              /.J
                                                                                                                                            1.3
                                                                                                                                             Al/
                                                                                                                                                          /,3
                                                                                                                                                                       ,,
                                                                                                                                                                       .:;
                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                   0   !? J. •
                                                                                                                                                                                                  "·"   .lf,2 ~ - I
                                                                                                                                                                                       t? i?.IJ o. () /J,I)    /} .ti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .'? lo /Jr /.S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0 0,4 II o t/,I)

I       6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
        7-Psychological
        8-UnknoMI
                                  .r
                                   II
                                t>< I 0"
                                            0         ,,:;- 1.~ t1 0 '7S Iii-
                                                      0 1.0             l.o
                                                     2../ .i/.3 II o ~/,3
                                                                                     11/)       ,J.
                                                                                               /O
                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                       /,,Z, I.rt "" l.s't' 4
                                                                                                                        ,z 2.h /1,, ..2.6 J
                                                                                                                       //) 1.-1.:l ,., ,, /3,'1. /J'
                                                                                                                                                                                 /)

                                                                                                                                                                                 ()
                                                                                                                                                                                       7' /f'.1 A,0 '11.7 I3 () S3 1.r.2. 11.17 l?.ro
                                                                                                                                                                                        I 2 I (),0 ,:!,/ .1 J
                                                                                                                                                                                  d IF jJ.1 IJ IJ 3/'2 1.1 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Jf- 1.4- o.r I, 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ?3 11'.1 /1,<7 IJS.-7
        9-0lher                   4- 0                // lo o. ()                    ,f,P        ?                        '7 9:1 11.o 9'1 4-                                          .I/- f.r o. () ,1.;:J 17 () 17 ~I A,() ?,/
I
                                                                                                             e:,                                                                 0

    I       Total               .f'J 14              ,,     n.1 ::JA,f/ 11e1ei                ..rl.         ;I()       . 71. 111 -tO '"ti. l..t~                                     t, 4-.f i?,1 /)..S' It:/?. I//., 41 "o 111,- /9.f Va?.



I                                        .5 <'--
                                        Number
                                                        .......   ,n~

                                                              Per Cent
                                                                        ,..,,,ffe
                                                                          /-.-,
                                                                                        /1 J.d Ll-/~/11


                                                                                      Number
                                                                                                            ,{-
                                                                                                            Per COIi
                                                                                                                       ,~
                                                                                                                             Ar:       ,",// LJ_,,A




                                                                                                                                    Number
                                                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                                                                           /

                                                                                                                                                               /

                                                                                                                                                          Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                        t?,R,.4A,GF
                                                                                                                                                                                /l-.:t~
                                                                                                                                                                                  Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                         /14

                                                                                                                                                                                                         -- ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ~L,,,. Ill/"-               ,.-,,d AA,L.tf

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,.,_ L~              ,.._
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,,,_,, ~/'TS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ...
             Evaluation         Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu Total Certain Doobtful Total


I       0-Balloon
        I-Astronomical
        2-Aircratt
                                  L1
                                 14
                                   ~
                                             0
                                                ,f
                                                t
                                                     .,,,tJ IJ,o IJ.0 1.4/S:9
                                                            1:11,/ 111
                                                        t/ 4.(. IJ.3 1/7'
                                                                         AO CJ
                                                                              ? "0
                                                                                                 J                I
                                                                                                                         ,?    ~e; JI.O
                                                                                                                          7 I~ AQ .1/47
                                                                                                                                          /tJ

                                                                                                                         .II- 1-,._, t.7 ?£.7
                                                                                                                                                                        t)
                                                                                                                                                                       ,1,
                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                      ()

                                                                                                                                                                                     Lt
                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                0         An        IJ {)
                                                                                                                                                                                                  K 211 I '>I/ µ...z;
                                                                                                                                                                                                 .2. ✓.' J..1 110.JI'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              lltP       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .;J..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .:l.      :l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3 .rt. 1/1 /Pl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ~  11.t •I/I ?'2.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Jf II/ 1/'i 22?
                                                       {/             a;;,                                                                                                                       i? An tJ.o                                                  0 ,IJ/) ~IJ ~t

I
        3·li&fllPhMOm.
        4-Birds                    0
                                    IJ      0
                                             I
                                                                /J.()
                                                                 AA

                                                       'I ,. ./,:J ?.7
                                                                   ~
                                                                                                ,!)
                                                                                                /J
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                  ()
                                                                                                                            tfJ
                                                                                                                            /l ,,
                                                                                                                                   A.I
                                                                                                                                      .       dl.O
                                                                                                                                             /),()
                                                                                                                                                          ,P.(J
                                                                                                                                                         t).{}
                                                                                                                                                                       I}
                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                      ()
                                                                                                                                                                                      0          I         J- \     IJ.()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ;?I)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I S:t.. ti." ,,.6
        5-Clouds, Oust. etc.       0        0          tJ An            0.0         ,:P./)       0                          ,()                           JP           0             0           t)                 11.0      I)/)       0        0          tJ Al /Jo tJ.t)
        6-lnsuffic.lnfo.          4-        ""        .If S."i          AO           f.9         tl          " tJ,:)
                                                                                                                                   IJ.()

                                                                                                                                   IJ.()
                                                                                                                                             ll.O
                                                                                                                                             JIJ 0       /Ju           ti             0          /')
                                                                                                                                                                                                           /J.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                           IJ.O     ,.o       4()        I         0          I rt. I) 0 F.6
        7-Psychological                                 I 2.,                        '2.2                                t)                              rJ.t                                    I J:3 0.0 .f'..i                        J                   I .J~~ /J.O .r:t
I
                                   I        0                           () 0                     0           (J                    0,()      ~.()                       I             ()                                                          0
                                                      5 1111 JIJ () II.I                                                                                                                         h -~U, ,, 0 ?U                         1-
        a.unknown
        9-0111"'
                                  0
                                   J
                                            0
                                                I     JI- t.7 2,;J. 1. 9
                                                                                                 .!
                                                                                                    I        0
                                                                                                              0          .J' l~A.() "1.i? IJ J/I,
                                                                                                                          'I      ,.,
                                                                                                                                    ·no Pi
                                                                                                                                                                        6
                                                                                                                                                                        /)
                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                      I          'I JIJ 0 J".1 5.J                      n         t:)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0      JI- :u.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             t) ~o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  11.o ;J.:)...2-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  () ()       at
                                 2. q 1,                                                                                                      ,.1 liJA                                                             1u, //lfl l.:Z
I
            Total                                    th' l/.4d JJ~, It'.?,                    14                  I     15' WJ.3                                       /1,            t.,, /9 lt.S.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '     /J' tf..? ~s.3 100.



                                      ~ / G., . ..,...,.     -S~,v.,--                                      ,( -~n                                                               J?,/,-~            ?,       AA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ·--              /lv."A•- N

I
                                                                                                                            .M     , .. -,,,_,.                                                                                                                      "•"r       <-A-t''fl
                                        Number                Pe,C01I                 Number                Per Cent                Number                Per Cent                Number                Percent
             Evaluation         Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total ~•rtain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
        0-Salloon                  ..i       f         ( 0 /P.2. 11.3                            t.              ,<         ( /t.7 .r. (. 2.2.'l                        .!                I)     J1M tJ. {) 2./J,O                       .1               1/.J' J~d. If 7,,2
                                                       1 t/.0 t. I £/                                                              .r. r. .<..f                                  4               7 ~AA 2t..7 lft'J                                         /11- NJ /I)? ·~.;-!)
                                            ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '
        l•Astronomica\             IJ                                                            ,;I.             I         3                            Vt             f                                                               1

I       2-Aircraft
        3-Light Phenom.
        4-Birds
                                   ~
                                    4-      %
                                            0
                                                     /2 f.2.
                                                      2. 4.1
                                                       ~
                                                                        !Id 7/1. { ..2
                                                                         "0 Ill     (,
                                                                                     /J.P
                                                                                                             2
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                         JI,
                                                                                                                            h
                                                                                                                                   ,1:,
                                                                                                                                    1/.£ 7
                                                                                                                         /) IJ.O "·" t'./)
                                                                                                                                  /(.?
                                                                                                                                            J: (.       //,2.          ()

                                                                                                                                                                        I         0
                                                                                                                                                                                     J           I /l.lJ 1..7 6J
                                                                                                                                                                                                 I /.? /J,() f.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0                  1.0       tJ.()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  r /3 14.3 i.'I 1.'?,Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             t}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I     I. I IJ. {) I.'?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,,.  O.o ,1,C
                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                       ,,
                                   (J                            AA
                                                                          00                    /J           ,:)                             /J,{l                      0        0                         A•                           LJ        0
        5--Clouds, Oust. etc.      ti       0          t/ A"                          t).t       IP                      p         8.0        17.o       tW                      0               '1                           tJ./J               ()         /,)       l.l'J       ,,   ()     /.t>
I
                                                                         0.0                                                                                                                               /1.IJ    ()."                (J
                                                                                                             "              I                            .2.f                                                       ,, " tJ.u                                7 1:1..r 0.0 12,
        S-lnsuffic.lnfo.
        7-Psycholo~cat
                                  .r
                                    I
                                             "
                                           ..2
                                                       ,110.1
                                                       1 ~.6 4.1 6. I
                                                                         ti.()      ltJ.2        I
                                                                                                 ~           0
                                                                                                              ()

                                                                                                                            t? tl.o
                                                                                                                                   ;?.f       A,()

                                                                                                                                              ti.()      /J.C
                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                        I) . I
                                                                                                                                                                                 0               ;?
                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                           ti.fl
                                                                                                                                                                                                          IJ.O      ,.7 £'7 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         'J       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -0 I I.I                         tJ 0       I!
                                                                                                                                                                                                          t..1 ,.o      6, 7 II                     II IQ(.
        &-Unl<nown
        9-0ther
                                  /.?
                                   .J       0
                                             Q       /3 l.:it.;
                                                      3 u
                                                                        '·" li.5
                                                                        ""   £. I
                                                                                  I ,;i.
                                                                                         .,
                                                                                          0 /.7 -?3.3 tJ.11 :JlJ.3
                                                                                              2 I)    .,-:(. n
                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                C
                                                                                                                                                                                C)
                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                 I         t.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     "·" h,7                I         "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4 5' l.i'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /J 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /U
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              gr;
I
                                                                                                                                   ti.()



                                           1K 14'1 t.J.3 I.U.1 tt?P :J.9                                         1     .11,. .fP.t. Jt/.4 /P(J.                         9                                                             ,f-i,      It. f t 11.4 .,a.U. /Pl,
                                                                                                                                                                                  '             /.[' &IJ.I ,fl). 0 /Ill.
            Total               .JI



I                                                                                                                                          225


I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                             .s ...~_,.,.-.,,_,
                                        ~

                                     rt,-
                                                                MP
                                                                            £Mt.&Vt2IV
                                                                            c,,,,,
                                                                          L1,,
                                                                        Per Cent
                                                                                             t2F Ul((lr
                                                                                   1Ud A - uOA,
                                                                                                          '\16/truVG.S
                                                                                                  /JF' S,r.Hr/A,       RE/1
                                                                                                       ,( _ /0 _.,--,.., ._,.,,:z,s.
                                                                                                        Number                             PerCeat
                                                                                                                                                                       //--'- <, e,,,,,n:, r
                                                                                                                                                                        Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                              Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,,;, ""'I       /.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ~'- Lo .SF,.,,,KD<
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Pc:~

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /1dJ§i!,'f'.S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
            Evaluation
                                                               ,,,,
                           Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Totll ~ertain Doubtful Totll Certain Doubtful Total                                           ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Dooblful Total Certain Doubtful Total
    0-Balloon
    I-Astronomical
    2-Aircraft
                            /0
                              ~


                              :i..
                                             II
                                             'i ;9 dr,- 4,,a iL.~
                                             0
                                                      I)


                                                     1,         tf.l
                                                                           /).O


                                                                           ,(/.o
                                                                                   atJ

                                                                                     'I.I
                                                                                              ✓
                                                                                               II


                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                     /J         I.I)
                                                                                                                    !, fAo 0() 5"tJ.tJ
                                                                                                                    2, I/po //).(I
                                                                                                                                             Po P.O

                                                                                                                                                      ,,,, ,,
                                                                                                                                                                   /
                                                                                                                                                                   t.
                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                               J
                                                                                                                                                                               .J
                                                                                                                                                                                  0         /       _r/..
                                                                                                                                                                                           9 3.H IL.1 ,..,.,,,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                           ,/ .rL // 1 :22.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 b. o 5:t,             .:I.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,/ /,f_2 IY7 3t.f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /   q_ I   (} 9./   ,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       'ii li'.1 21.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                ,,. IO                                              ,,                                 ,,,,                                                                 ,,,,,                             p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
    3-Li&hl Ptlenom.          p              0        /J                             /J.(}    I)            0                  /)A           /J (7                 0              0         /J        /J/J        tJ.O                 d          0                    tl,o       ().IJ      .-:J/l
    4-Birds                  0              0        tJ        /JA        I)()       tlt?      tJ           0       /J         /J.IJ         tJ.o     ().,,        b              I)       /,1       1)/J        /J. /) ,,,.,                     0           ()       p__,,,     I) 0      /J.P
    5-Clouds, Oust. etc.     0           0           /J        ti. 0 tJ. 0           (1.()    II           0        ()         /J 0          0. (I /J.P            /J          0           /)        /Jo          tl.o ll.P            /)        ;?          0         IJ. I)     tlO       /J/J
    6-lnsuffic. enro.         p             0        t7        0.P IJ()            ().()       /           0        I         !J().tJ        ,, ,,, /(}_()         /)          0           tJ        /) 0        /J.O '?,,,            ,!)        0          (J        /).0       ,, 0      ,,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                       ,,,,.,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
    7-Psym,lopcal             t)            0        tJ         fl.ti      IJ,IJ   ()_(}          0         0       ()          A.o          IJ.O                   /          0           I         J:t,        IJ IJ     51,          ,P        {:)         0        l'J.O      ().O      /Ja
    8--wn                     I             0        I          -I.I,     /)0        f<t      ..2           IJ      2., ',;/1_,               I.O     -,/),,,     ..2          I)          2,       Ill          I. 0      //. I        I        0           /  q.;               (J,,f)    ti/
    !1-()llle,                /J            0        p         JJ.O 0.0              (lfl      0           0        p         O.o                     0. tJ         I          0            I       f.(,,        00         £i,         I        I           ?. 'i.f               fi.l IR.i,
                                                                                                                                             "· 0

                                            q                  s?.114,.I/ /PP.                9                                                                                                    L/.7 ll.3 IA?.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '                                                              I
I
            Tola!          /3                        2?                                                     I      /0         ,'pp 11().0 /t}(). / ;{                          (.         l,F                                                     J'        // S-4.5 4-.s'.S /t}IJ.



                                                                                                                                                                             t? ,,_
                                                                                                                              "' ---
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                              6 / <b-,1,0>         - ... M,w'~Th                  L-3o                                                                                7)                        ?o ,,.,_,,,,,___
                                                                                                                                                                                          - ... -  ~ ..... r,&'JJ
                                   Numbe,                Per Cent                Number                Per Cent               Nuntler               Per Cent                Numbef                PerC81t
             Evaluation    Certain Do•btful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Toi~ Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Cert.in Doubtfu Totll Certain Doobtful Total
    0-Balloon                 .r            :2        5 II/ 14 1%.5                            4            0        ✓ Ill                   ,(}_ () II I              J              I    d ld_:t. 4.f I?.! ,t7 ..r .;;- () 0 t.t                                                           ~"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
    1-Astnmomical             /           ~           JI        .:/."1     74 II/                 (,        0        I..       IL.7           /)p /1,,.7               6           ::l.    f .Zf./.. 9../' J/{./ 1.r -5' :Ztl .2f.'I i".I. .lf'_,;
                                                                           ,.4 H.1
                               7
                                                                                                           '                                                                    ,,:l        :e tli <jJ I'll 7                         /.7 /r;z
    2-Aircraft                            :l.          9 :h:'I                                    1                  I/ 13 /£.7 25.CJ                                  I                                              I    f< 11 I
                                                                           ,,,, ,, tl.O
    3-Li&htl'll..,m.
    4-Birds
                              tJ
                              /)
                                          0
                                          0
                                                      0 R_,.,
                                                      0         i?.t7      A.n       -1~
                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                  t)       0
                                                                                                              0       I .?.f IJ.tJ 2.S
                                                                                                                     n P.o (/.(/ 19.n                               "
                                                                                                                                                                   ,,,
                                                                                                                                                                   /J
                                                                                                                                                                               :7
                                                                                                                                                                                  (1
                                                                                                                                                                                           2/
                                                                                                                                                                                           ,?
                                                                                                                                                                                                     /l. 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                      /J,IJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  tf.[ 9.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 P.o        '?"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,::,     r"J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 p      /l. p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /J.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   11. d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   tl.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1'7.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            tJ.O
                                                                                                           I         I IJ.O 2.i :U                                                                                                               ~

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
    5-Cloud~ Dus~ et~         /J         0            0         -9,0               17.P        ()                                                                              0            tJ                             ,J_t)       t)                                                   /JtJ
    6-lnsuffic.lnfo.         4           0           q'        /dJ
                                                                           A.o
                                                                           17.I) tflf         j            0        .3 i.3 17. IJ ru                               ti          ()          (}
                                                                                                                                                                                                     11.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                      1,0 l).o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /JP IO                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       "·"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ttl 11.2 IJ. 0 17.Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /J I)


    7-Psychological          tJ           0           /J
                                                                "·" 17.o tJ.O                  /            D        I 2.f ().(J 2.f                               I            t:l        /          4-.f       l).O       « g- t?               0          ,?  ~.o "· I) op
                                                     d l/4.r        Q.O ,Lfp                                                                                                                        ,a (). I) ¢3
    8-UnknoMI                4-          d                                                    I/           0        II 10.1. o.o
                                                                                                                                                      """          I           t7           I                                         l_:l        tJ        1.! 22.4       221·1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   "·"
    9-0ther
       _,
                             :2..        0            2.        74

                                                  .27 111.f J.J.1 I/JI)
                                                                           d.o       'I.I/    tJ

                                                                                             J.9
                                                                                                           0         /J tJ.o o.o 17.P


                                                                                                                              StJ.I, j(i_(. I/pp /-?
                                                                                                                                                                   ,I          I
                                                                                                                                                                               g-
                                                                                                                                                                                           ?        4f 4-.F q, I..
                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,a JI.I                /00. Ill?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .2.       0           1., 14 ().o J.f/'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5'1' ~I." Jf.o !(JP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                         '                                                                  7
I           Total          ..t I                                                                                   ](,                                                                    ,2/                                                    II



                                  _,,


                                   Number
                                            (",,-.   Nh


                                                         Percent
                                                                  ~•
                                                                          £t/,?LI/AlZelll
                                                                          FO.e
                                                                           / .Cr,-

                                                                                 Number
                                                                                        tJ.·,dA~'tJN
                                                                                                        t2F



                                                                                                       PerCmt
                                                                                                                   //AL(r
                                                                                                                   OF
                                                                                                         1h -/e, <, ,,,,,,.,,=
                                                                                                                               Nunf>er
                                                                                                                                       V/fiftr(A(<-,£
                                                                                                                                      .<"/-" "-111/t:
                                                                                                                                                          /



                                                                                                                                                     Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                   GREE/!/
                                                                                                                                                                             / / - f0
                                                                                                                                                                             Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ae
                                                                                                                                                                                                -1 , { ' ~ , _ , - h ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,::., ~w//1/r-                 LA&°.&:A/


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ~I-to Si!'h/r'.I><
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,tl//'JG"t!T.S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                              ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
             Evaluation    Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Ooubtfu Totll Certain Doobtful Total
    0-Balloon                 {)             tJ           ()     tJ.o /),,,          /),,     ()                         (1    IJA           -9.o
                                                                                                                                                        ,, ,,,         tJ      .0           0         '-ti        11.0 /J/.1            /)            0       0 lt1,1             o.a       a CJ
    I-Astronomical         ..J7 _;_,- ~2, ,~ J df.l... it.I                                    I           JO        1/        L.7 tl.? :tJ.11                      1             '2        1 L3.t. lf.2 iJ.{l                             I         0           I 50_,,           n.o =itJ. I)
    2-Aircraft               ,;1. n    :Z 11 I'/" !l.1                                         I               0      I        /7 IJ. ()               ;f._7                          I     I         /Jb         q;         91         0            (J       r:J       ,.,,, ,.,,.., D/l
                                                      ,,,                                                                                     ,, ,, ,,,,,,         "                                                                                         ,,,
                                                                                                                                                                   p

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
    3-Ught Phmom.             /J             /}                 ,0A       (}_()      ,?/J      0              ()     t:J        IJ.o                                           0           p          /),';)      O.o        t7.P       0            ()                 0.0        '°1"      '1"-
    4-Birds                                           /J                                                                                                                                                                                          n                     o.,.-,               ,,,,
                                          ,,, 0 "·" l'l.o /JP II eJ
                              ()            0                                                 ()            (I       tJ         AA            _,, A
                                                                                                                                                       tl.O       0            0           (1         IJ.I)       /J 0       -'?"          t)                    /J                rJ.,?
    5-Clouds, Oust, etc.      /)                                Ao I'/ (J            ().()                          /.J        /)_(I         ().P      t).()       /)             0        (}        IJ.O tJ. IJ /10                    /)       0           61 00                 0.0 0. I}
    6-lnsuffic.lnfo.          2           /)          2..      ,;_J AO ~-B                        p         0        0          ho           /J /7     /7/J        tJ         0            tJ        o.o   0.0 o.tJ                    IP        0           0 o,,1                ao /,).t:J
                                                      ,,, o.o o.o ll./J                                                                      ,._,,
                                          n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        "                                                             I
    7-Psythological           0                                                               /)           0         tJ /J.O        l,;>t)                        (!1           0          0          00          0.0       0.0                  0           0  o.tJ ,:J.,? t:J.()
    II-Unknown               4-           0          d          .[~ 0.0            !i. {,     J                     ..1 ~,1.0 /) () 17&.0                              I       0           I          ti I                  V           I        CJ          I "'"-t? o.o 5i7.o
    9-0ther                   /             /        2,         1.4 /~             £.f        p           ()
                                                                                                            ()

                                                                                                                     t:J        ,,,   ..     , . I)     t?_(J      0              0        /J         ()_ 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IJ,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ti. I)     l)(J       /)        el          0 &tJ /],,, £)/J

                           u                                                                 .s- ,,, / [ H3 /,(.1 1,0.                                                                                                                                                 ,, ,,,
                                        Jt '/,i. .J'IJ.0 .ro.o /l)O,                                                                                                                      II 11.1 ,;n JP,7.                                                                                 voa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
            Total                                                                                                                                                  f            3                                                      (J         /J         ~                    ,,,_ /J




                              I. I l'.",,~.N.b - _.., H,.A/,r,u                                           -t- ~,,             ,A                                            ,,,,.,,,.,. ,1,,_,           ....                          -,..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ·-                              sr,, .....,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,,_r
                                        Number           Per Cent                                       Number                             PerCerit                         Number                             Per Cent                         Number                          Per Cent
             Evaluation    Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total                     ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total J;ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
    0-Balloon                 I              /)        I        f. i      tl.tJ    1.1         I              0          I     9.1 1/.0                f'./            I          t)           I IL.? /) 0                  //.. 7         tl        0           ()     /) 0       6.11     ().cJ
    I-Astronomical            p             I         I                   fl       k'1                     d        q (1,/ .2.7.~ 3/4'                                 I          t)           I IL.7 tJ 0                 It: 1      14-         1'1 .1J 111.4 4/.3 11. 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                40                                 I
                                                                          .r,.o 5/J.()                                                                                                                                                                 ..? ,2,J. 4. 3 t..5
                                          '
    2-Aircraft                0                       I.        tl.O                          .2.          tl       '1 llt.2                 /7.0 1tt              I              0            I    /(.1 tl.o               11...1      I          ,2
    3-Light Phenom.           ti         (J           I)                                      ..2          ,tJ                It?                     If. t        t:J            0                                          ,,,,,,    t)            0
                                                               "-" P.o 00                                           2,,                      IJ 0                                           t)        6.'1                                                   0                    AO        &.o
                                                               11.o o. 0 ,, ,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,I) 0                                                   -"A

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,,,,,
    4-Sirds                   (J          0           /J
                                                               _,,,_ 0 0 ,10                   "           (J        /)        P.6 0. (J               o.o         0            0           /J        o.o o.o de?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,,,,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tJ            0          t:J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        "·"     tJ.O


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
    S-Clouds, Oust, etc.     t)          (:J         /)                                       IJ          0                    tl.o o.o               0.t?         LJ                                                                      I)     0          cJ         P.O d.o t?.JJ
                                                                                                                     /J
                                                                                                                                                                                  ,,, ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                  0         ()       .. 0        (J    0
    £.lnsuffit.lnfo.
    7-Psychological
                              I
                              /)
                                         0
                                         d           0
                                                      I         is
                                                                "·"
                                                                          I) 0

                                                                          (1_11
                                                                                   111
                                                                                   tJ.o       "I)
                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                           I)
                                                                                                                     0         A.o"'·,,, "
                                                                                                                    tJ tJ.O () 0 lt?.a   tJ
                                                                                                                                            ()."
                                                                                                                                                                                         tJ ,?
                                                                                                                                                                                                     O.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I) 0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 t7 " tl.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /2()

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             t, ho
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             t)         /J 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /11)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  "0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1,:,,.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,,,,.,
    8-Unlulown                .t p
                                         p
                                                     2, l1L.7 0 0
                                                               ,0
                                                                                   "·· 7      ~
                                                                                               III
                                                                                                            I)      2,         /i.2 0. 0              Jf 1        J
                                                                                                                                                                               ,,0" d               ,J/).0       o.o 6'0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                      "-" o.o /}.{)                        ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  "          .J'       t.J' 17.0            t,.5


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
    9-0ffter                  I                          I                IJ A       '?..1                 t:J      t)         11.o 0.0                A.t)        CJ                       0                                                     0          I         ::7.2       0.0       :2.2

        Total               5             7          /~        411 s--,~ ltt:JP.              ,1          _3       II 'b.7 :l1'l //1/7                             6           0           6        /(JD., l).o            /()I>.     ~J-        ~/         4£ J°tt.l 14,:7 ll)P.



                                                                                                                                           226                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
I
I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,,,,,
I        Evaluation
                              .5 <--- , ·- -~ ,/,r--
                                       Number
                                                                             ;:,,,e.

                                                                         Per Cent Number
                                                                                                 ,,,,,,,, ,.-,-;,AA



                                                                                                        Per Cent
                                                                                                                ~-/0
                                                                                                                                      A~

                                                                                                                               _..r:,~A,./nr

                                                                                                                                  Number
                                                                                                                                                    S/'


                                                                                                                                                        Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                    ,.
                                                                                                                                                                         ✓ //-

                                                                                                                                                                                Number
                                                                                                                                                                                              YELt."''·'
                                                                                                                                                                                                ,,_


                                                                                                                                                                                                      Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                               -~-
                           Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total icertain Doubtful Total Certain Do11btful Total L;ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain DoutJtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ~-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /C,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .,,,_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              YEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,.,,_,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <'.            ,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,,,,,, ,..,4r.s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -
                                                                                                                                      ,.,
I   0-S.lloon
    1-Astranomical
    2-Aircraft
                            /II
                             ?
                              tfl

                                        2
                                         .s
                                            I)          ()       /,}(I

                                                       I< 4,.(1 :?1.() .lo.o
                                                        d
                                                                            ,!J,O


                                                                 a.,, I " //..o
                                                                                         "-"        I)
                                                                                                   .r
                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                     t)
                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                               0               ,f),n
                                                                                                                               _,- ,r,rt ~-" Lrrl.
                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                      ,, . ,,,,
                                                                                                                                     1/1 /I.II //./
                                                                                                                                                          A.()
                                                                                                                                                                    _'{
                                                                                                                                                                    .J
                                                                                                                                                                         J

                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                      :7        13 b
                                                                                                                                                                                                      4 IJJ.I ,.J I.U.(
                                                                                                                                                                                                      .:r I l l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.2,/-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A (1 Ill.fl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,'J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .$,- II?. I.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /IA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -, • : .at j",J 41.'1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /1.tJ    II.I'.>


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           J/,J -,ql'f


I
    3-Lii11tPh010m.
    4·Birds
                             I
                             ,I)        I
                                         /)

                                        ,.,
                                                        I
                                                        I        '°"
                                                                 0.IJ
                                                                            "·" 4-. 0
                                                                            4,p 4.o
                                                                                                    tJ
                                                                                                    t)
                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                               J     /1(1      1/. I
                                                                                                                                                          /1 II
                                                                                                                                                          II.I
                                                                                                                                                                    /)
                                                                                                                                                                   tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ()


                                                                                                                                                                                                      "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                /1.d    /J.o ().()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        11.h A,n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       "          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '·"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              11,P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .r.1 r.'/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /).p    ,?.()
    ~Clouds,Dust, etc.        I)                       0
                                                               "·" ,I."
                                                         ,., tJ.,/1.4                  A,(1         /)           .0
                                                                                                                               "     ti.A      ,. "       /1.(7     IJ                I               I         0.(1    /. ~ t.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  "          t!ID           OP ,!J.O
    &-lnsuffic. lnl:I.        I          t)             I                                          t?                (1        0     l'/.(1     /1.p
                                                                                                                                                          ,. " 1                   /)

                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                      .-t U.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  "·" .t.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                u AP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 l'-6      tJ       0             0          (IA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .r.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /1,e?     -<>. 0

                                                       " 12.• "·'
    7-Psycholo&ical                                                                                                            t)                         II.ti          I                                                                 I        ()            I                         t?.o
                              "         0                 11.P
                                                                   "·"                              ,cJ              0               /),A       II.A
                                                                                                                                                          ~,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                   0                                                                                         .J"'I



I   I-Unknown
    9-0111 ..
                              r
                              p
                                         0
                                         0
                                                       ~
                                                       0
                                                               '·"
                                                          "·' "'" '·"
                                                                                     /7"           ~
                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                              ~
                                                                                                                              n
                                                                                                                                    l~~.1
                                                                                                                                     A (1
                                                                                                                                               11.(J

                                                                                                                                                /I.I
                                                                                                                                                          "'
                                                                                                                                                                    .2
                                                                                                                                                                    (!I           0
                                                                                                                                                                                   0              2
                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                               lh..{" /)_()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Ah      A,p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /2..l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 "·"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   r)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3 111.l ,.,,., 11.t.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0          '-P            /1 II   0 0


        Total               /7           ,f           ,LJ' 1(.1,p J;..o NII.                       I                 I        9 Ii~ II.I I/Ah                      13              J            ;t J/.i II.I /OP J.J                                4- 17 1-7'/ r 1:2~..r /p()
I
                              i{,/ ~......H.I> • .'f M.,/ , r b                                                   L'- ~,,,          . --                                         n,,~= "' AA.. ,.-~-                                       7) ,,d.o!ll7?,o-'                 , __ fr..,.,..,.•


I         Evaluation
    0-Balloon
                                   Number


                                            0
                                                         Per Cent                Number                Per Cent
                           Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                  I                        I     J.o tl.o .J.11                             6        J         '1 vt.i .f. I 1~.t~
                                                                                                                                                                          Nuntier               Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                                                                                   ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                     4                J               '1 7:r r 11. t. Id, I                J'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Per Cent


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -1         ? It.I Lr :71L
    I-Astronomical                 I     ,;J           ? s11 LI 41                                      .--          J         9 II-'.~' 8.1 .21. t.                                      ~           .:2.l.o J/9 JI.R 4,-                              .l         7 /J.9 9. 7 UL

I
                                                                                                    .                                                                /?
    2-AircraH                     7      i            1.r !.:2~.2 !7d.:l. ,1,•d.                    4                .1        '1 !11?,f I.I IJl.9                       J                I           2 .1.9 .r:4 Ill   /                               0           I 5. 2 P.D !.2
    3-light Phenom.           :z.        I             ~     t.1 -~O t/. t                          3                0         3 I.I            (I 0      II        A                 ,0              Cl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ""      ,d, 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ""         I           0          J          u. 11.0 3.2
    4-Birds                                                      dA                                     /)           0                                                                 -ti                     IP.D                        0                                 P.o            tJ p
    5-Clouds, Dus~ etc.
                              I)

                              ~
                                         0
                                        <)
                                                        0
                                                                 P.o
                                                                     "·" 0"              (1.0                                  0
                                                                                                                                      "" P.o "·"                     /)

                                                                                                                                                                    I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                      0                 /JA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        o,:,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 d.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0          <)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            "tJ P.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0."
                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                          "·" ;z_ 0
I
                                                        0                                                                             (/.IJ                                                                     0.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                  " I/I "·" :111 .s                                               "          i1.P
                                                                                                                     ,0                                                               t)
    6-lnsuffic.lnfo.         .?                        .1    ""  9./
                                                             "·" 9./ 0
                                                                                                    /)

                                                                                                                                I    ~7
                                                                                                                                               ,t/.O
                                                                                                                                                          ,t.?                                        :,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (71)                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0         .r         J(.1           o.o IL I
                                                                                                                                      ,.,,. "·" ,ti, I)
                                        0                                                           ;            A
    l-Psycholo1ical                     e;                                                                                                                                         0                  p                                    0
                             tJ
                              f
                                                       ()
                                                                 "·"
                                                                 d.lJ       IJ.d                                     0
                                                                                                                               " 1L.2 "" //.,;..
                                                                                                                               (.
                                                                                                                                                                    0                                           IJ.O    tJ.4 IIP                       0          0           IJ.O          "0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     "·"
    8-UnknOY111                         ,<)            R ,A2    1~,1;2      ,h,,

                                                                 ,,~ 0 " 11.,                      "                 d                         I),()                -~                 tJ         3 11.t.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    "·" If.'- '1I                       ~         9 19.P IJ,O 1,4,(1


I
    9-0tller
                              "         0              0                                           .:J..         I            -~     5.4 ~.? RI                     0                 I               I         d.P J'.'1 .r'I                          0         I J.}.       J.l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            "·"
                           .:l.:2       JI             n         t/..7 ./.U I/M .17                              lo 37 1Jo :l.7.o 1011 /0                                             7                        .rn 41.:J. /Ill/. ;U.                   ,5        i, 33.9 JO I/ob
                                                                                                                                                                                                 "
        Total




I                             .5 <-~-~- -
                                   Number                 Per Cent
                                                                    d~
                                                                             ,:',o,11,

                                                                               IL~-
                                                                                   Number
                                                                                                 ,,,,,,A,-;,:,,v
                                                                                                                /.·/n
                                                                                                         Per Cent
                                                                                                                                    ,<),C

                                                                                                                               <~. --✓./)~
                                                                                                                                 Nuntier
                                                                                                                                                S/G/11"/A. 6

                                                                                                                                                       Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                                                                                                       t?d.11:ers
                                                                                                                                                                                 //-::>A    ,.,,.,,,.,,./,br
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 t?r-       ,c?r/,1,E',e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .~I- £0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             "'"'"-"'~.r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -
          Evaluation       Certain Doubtful Tollll Certain Doobtfu I Total Certain Doublful Total Certain Doubtful Tolal Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu Total Certain Doubtful Total


I   ~Balloon
     I-Astronomical
    2-Aircraft
                            ,1-,
                             .s-
                                 &

                                             I
                                                 ,I        t!7   AA
                                             9 .H. l.:i~.,- ,Jfl r/ t11.tl
                                                L IIL 2~ 11.'i
                                                                            /7.L!J IP.d                 .J
                                                                                                        .<
                                                                                                                  ;/
                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                               'I
                                                                                                                               L
                                                                                                                                     IJ.3       ~I/ t.U
                                                                                                                                     n.~ /1 iq,,_o
                                                                                                                                               /lJ I.U
                                                                                                                                                                    d.
                                                                                                                                                                    4-
                                                                                                                                                                         ,I
                                                                                                                                                                                            ,--~ r./. 1/J 1,,.;9
                                                                                                                                                                                          .:;
                                                                                                                                                                                            J
                                                                                                                                                                                          I -• Lh.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                           lt.1  /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,, 1 .J'./_

                                                                                                                                                                                                          IM.t ,:i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .r:L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /}

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           J      :2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              17 1.1 f,:,.¢
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R.o 71 7, 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  J- l.t:4 :n.1 IU.G'
                                                                                                    " I
                                                                                                    ()
                                                                                                                               2
                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                     "(l
                                                                                                                                                (.7                      I                   I r.t.                                                                   An ,II.,? ~(l

I
    3-Li&lltPh010m.                          t:7
    4-Birds
                              tJ
                               0                J
                                                        0
                                                           I     "" ,n .u tJ
                                                                 AA
                                                                            AA           dt1
                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                      P.4
                                                                                                                                      0A       0.0
                                                                                                                                                           t..7
                                                                                                                                                           '?"      ,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                   ,,0
                                                                                                                                                                                      I                I         1,/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ~.tJ S:J-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        r.t.      ,;-t.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ()        ,,,"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ~.o #.d ,I, (l
    ~~Dv•~et~                 /J             I             I     (),(1      2.3 ,1.3
                                                                                                    "             t:J          " ,,,, /I
                                                                                                                               ()                   .I)    IJ.()    /J              ,,,               0         I. (I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ~,., '·"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  l..o     tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ",.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0 t?.tJ /} A tl.P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,.,~
    6-lnsuffic.lnfo.         .?             ()         -~        1P PO 1,.                          ~                          2 /J.3          ,h I/./
                                                                                                                                                    0               ()                 0              0              tf ,o       t!I, (l   (7                     (7          /1.()         A.II
                                                                                                                     ""                                                                               I /J,(1 .1: t. ,:;;/,,                                                                ,.o
I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ~
    l-Psycholo1ical           ti         p              ()       i)f)       OIi iJ,()               t)               0         p           tl.o /J./)               ()             I                                                                              t)          ()I)                    f2t)
    I-Unknown                 I..                       (.       ;,1,, tJ () lie                    I                          I
                                                                                                                                     "·"
                                                                                                                                      l..i ,!J,(1 1..1                                                2 II.I tl.o II. I                    4-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       l'J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ()         ¢, ii.I t?. () ~P.i
    9-0ther                  0           "
                                         0              ~        /) 0       O.tJ P.O                    I         0
                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                               I     (..1       b,0       ,_t
                                                                                                                                                                    .J
                                                                                                                                                                    p
                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,.,       /Jo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        "·"       0.()     I            (7        I 11 A,<J 77

                            ~/ 1.1 ;j 2 !-t,,1 ~7. q /Oi1, II                                                        4        /J' i1(.~ 2t.1 11111'.                                /,, 1/2 ILl.7 333 la?.                                             5         /.1 t/J' 31.J /PtJ.
I
         Total                                                                                                                                                     /).                                                                     K



                                 ,! I ~e11-,.•                    _ 5,w, _____                                   ,<. ~.,., ,u,,,.,,,,,. __                                        ,I),,..,~                ~                               ), ,,,, ,a -r,. . r                ,,_

I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  M,. ·---                                                                  f.., .......b
                                   Number                PerC111t                                        Number                Per Cent                Number                Percent                 Number                Per Cent
          Evaluation       Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tolal                          ertain Ooublful Total Certain Doubtful Total pertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tot~
    0-Balloon                 I          .:l            ] .H 1..7 //J.tJ                                .?               J     L      ,U. tl.4 ltf:S                         I            0               I     t?.1    P.t)      f.l      ;;}               I     3          1.9 J.4                 tf
    I-Astronomical            ,j_                       3 L. 7 ?.~ lt/.P                                .I            I
                                                                                                                               '    I/J'. (.   .J. I 1111.1              1          I                 4         :Jn t1 J If.I/             Jt)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4- 14 M.,4 1.8 ?tit.
I                                                                                                                                                                        .,,                                                                                  114,'L ,,
                                            I

                              .r                        'I IJL.., JU ?/Jp .a                                          4        / 11.J,J 1a.~- %.ti

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '
    2-Aircraft                               {.                                                                                                                                         0             2 Ill~                      n71                   .J'              ?~9                    ~


    3-Li&i11Ph010m.           t)             I             I     t?.11       l .?.        I.I           I                 p     I 1,/ J'J,O £/                       ,,,              ,.,             I)        A,IJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (!)II
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /J.11    ,,,,     I)           0          i!)        /),I)         /1./J     ,:,o
    4-Birds                   0          t)             p        /JD        ti#          IJ.,1      ,,,               ()       0     () 0      (). ()      /JA           I)           d               0         0.#     II.()     P.tJ     ~            ()         I!)        I)"           /) ()     t).IJ
                                                        p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ·" A.O ,., ,,
I
    5-Clouds. Dust. etc.
    6-lnsuffic. Mio.
    7-Psycholo&itll
                              ~
                              I
                              ,:7
                                        n

                                         " .3 L'7 J.J
                                         I
                                                        I
                                                                 //,A

                                                                 ?.3 ,P,f)
                                                                           t), (1        /J.tl
                                                                                         j'.J
                                                                                       1(),/J
                                                                                                    IJ

                                                                                                    I)
                                                                                                        J
                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                     (1

                                                                                                                     .,.,
                                                                                                                          " .n "·"
                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                      P.p

                                                                                                                                      1).(1
                                                                                                                                                #.o

                                                                                                                                               ()."
                                                                                                                                                          /,ti
                                                                                                                                                           J. I
                                                                                                                                                           1"
                                                                                                                                                                    /J
                                                                                                                                                                     ,!/
                                                                                                                                                                     /
                                                                                                                                                                                      I)

                                                                                                                                                                                   .t:J
                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                      fJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                      IP
                                                                                                                                                                                                       I  <?_I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                (),II   o.o tJ.p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 P.il tl.o tJ.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /J, d     fl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /}



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .,,        '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ()



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /}

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /(..~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .t.4 h,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /),(1    /(/.',!.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '1. t£
                                                                                         ,,, '      ,:;                        "9 .it. I 0.0 ti.I                                                                                                                                           ,,_ /7. /
    1-Unllno•
    9-Dllw
                              /()       ~             /ti 111.1 tJ ()
                                                           ,1,,:,
                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                               I      ,.p
                                                                                                                                                                    .2
                                                                                                                                                                                      " "             .3 11~3           /J,O     11.J       '}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       "I         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1 111.I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .1.4 :2.41

I
                             tJ                        ()                                           (7               I                         J./        1./        ti.           CJ                                   (l, f)    17.tl    L)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,,
                                        /':7                                             4.17                                                                                                                   tl.D                                                          /) 0
                                                                            P. "

                                         9                                                                           q        ?, 7/,9 .2/. I 1/Ptl ID                                             // 9,.9 9.t                              31                    4! 11.o ~:I.ti
        Total              .2 I                       ,1,.       111.p 1t, " I/JP.               ,2~                                                                                    I                                        /'7(1.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ''""
I                                                                                                                                              227


I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                    Ft:Je           ,/J, ,AA-r'/~A,        &'F    r,r/g-~/J,.
                                                                                                                                                                      ,_,,,     __ _,,                          /,;L"'    /,1(/,C.             ,,,,_,=-            /?,t;'J5t!7"S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                              .s- s~,..- ✓-
                               ,.,,,ber
                                                        --
                                                     Per Cent
                                                                   /~--
                                                                             Number
                                                                                              ~ • /n     <~ ••,ifk •
                                                                                                   Per Cent                 Number                Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                / / - :,_ .:S 'l"-.ifl>.S
                                                                                                                                                                          Number                Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .II- t:. o             < •-.if;z,~

     EWllualion
~Balloon
1-AstlOIIOllliCII
                       Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total ~ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total [;ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tot~


                       .:u
                               I      :f
                                   .:7r ,I(. 27.3
                                                 4 /3              :, q
                                                                  ,~ j"
                                                                            .r-,
                                                                            J7/.i
                                                                                       .P
                                                                                      .r            9
                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                          J/l.
                                                                                                               I   /J,/J ~
                                                                                                                   h~/. -,c, / A•.?
                                                                                                                                      I :1./
                                                                                                                                                        ✓
                                                                                                                                                         .,.
                                                                                                                                                            I         ,2
                                                                                                                                                                      ~          7
                                                                                                                                                                                    ~        .J./,.
                                                                                                                                                                                             J:I '.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                       .r.~ 7.'I
                                                                                                                                                                                                    .r? 1rr-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A

                                                                                                                                                                                                                           :J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .:l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4 .r;,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (JO        2.t ,;,t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     J·., /1.:l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
2-Aircrlft                ~                     II .ci             I/. I 1,..~         J            4      ? CJ.4 /~ ..J ,2/'I                                        ~                      /3.). l.t:K 14'.o                          4        'I /J.9 /I.I J.t:o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ~-' "
                                      7                                                                                                                                         II
                                                                                                                                                        ,.,
Hi&MP!ltnom.
4-Birds
S-Clouds. Dus~ et~
                          "I .2I 2:2 /J J.3
                                        ..1 t. .1.t I

                                                ()
                                                        /1,()
                                                        "
                                                    " e>"
                                                                             2,1,,
                                                                            I) ()
                                                                                                           I 1./ ,9. () t /
                                                                                                          ti
                                                                                                          ()
                                                                                                                   /J 0
                                                                                                                   P.o
                                                                                                                                  /1.0
                                                                                                                                  /J ()
                                                                                                                                            A.o
                                                                                                                                            l.tJ
                                                                                                                                                        d

                                                                                                                                                        " " 4"
                                                                                                                                                                      /
                                                                                                                                                                      0          It
                                                                                                                                                                                    I         h./J ~/
                                                                                                                                                                                              /7.0 Ro ,.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  d.()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I!)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             "·" tl.O t/.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          P.t? 0.0 P.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.3 .2.J ///                   I
6-lnsuffi~ ~lo.
                          I?
                          I
                                     0
                                     0
                          ,, ,., 0 O.t1 P.O P.o
                                                  I
                                                        /1.IJ
                                                        I.!,
                                                                   O.IJ
                                                                  O.tl      I.J        "
                                                                                       3        0        .3        ,f/t/. II. 0             1/4         4             0
                                                                                                                                                                                             AO
                                                                                                                                                                                             IAJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                        p "
                                                                                                                                                                                                        AO       IP✓      ·i           " "'/6.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       "         'P.o li.1
7-Psyd!Dlo~131
1--
!1-0lh"
                           7
                          -~
                                     ,.
                                      I
                                                 7 Q.I 0.tl 9. I
                                                4 .I. 'j / . .1 .r.:2.
                                                                                       L!)



                                                                                       '
                                                                                       t7
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                 i!)

                                                                                                t!')
                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                          I.
                                                                                                                   tl.O
                                                                                                                   11.f
                                                                                                         ,,, /J () /.I
                                                                                                                                  ,.o
                                                                                                                                  /J.IJ
                                                                                                                                      (J
                                                                                                                                            ti.ti
                                                                                                                                            10
                                                                                                                                            ,Pf)
                                                                                                                                                        "
                                                                                                                                                       /(J
                                                                                                                                                        ,.2
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                In
                                                                                                                                                                                 ,2
                                                                                                                                                                                             ,,,"0;:
                                                                                                                                                                                              f.~ l)_t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                        tl.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                       il.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I.()

                                                                                                                                                                                                                ~t.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  f.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /ii,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,!!,



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /:2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5J.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          () (J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     tl.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     tl.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               t:J.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .JJ.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               "7.P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
    Total               Jx .H· -n 4t.~ J1Jt Voo. Is /II ~.2. J'LJ 4H loo. 1..27 II .J,f 71.I :219 Inn. 1.?                                                                                                                             ,f      3, 1118 ;2.J.:l l/60.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
I Evaluation
                              t:J s..,-~-,V.k• • s ,H_Nv-~
                               Num~                  Per Cent                Number
                                                                                               r.-.w
                                                                                           M,~--r~.,
                                                                                                   PerCmt
                                                                                                                          /),,r~ ~ - NI. ✓vrr~
                                                                                                                            Nu~e,                Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                     )\,,,oL'ITJO,A/'

                                                                                                                                                                           Number
                                                                                                                                                                                        Y    ~rAr~b
                                                                                                                                                                                              Per Cent
                       Certain Doobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tola! Certain Doobllut Total ~ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
~Balloon                  /J"        /~         :n J✓,t 11.'i .f4.7                    /,f /2            .Jo lf4 /,).'/ i1.~                                f         ?         ;/ II.I. 1o .u.t.                         /-1          ..1 Ji I..U 4'1 17-S
l·Astronomical
!•Aircraft
                          :2
                         /(J
                                     .? .1· 2.1 3.,.. :.:.?
                                      f I f 1/P. ..I ,I.ti lf'I
                                                                                       /11
                                                                                       .!
                                                                                                4
                                                                                                 4
                                                                                                /o
                                                                                                          14 ,,, g 4.,. I/. I
                                                                                                          I~ ../.l. JP.i /4.tJ
                                                                                                          C .2..1. 4.3 t..J
                                                                                                                                                        /I
                                                                                                                                                        -2.
                                                                                                                                                                      r
                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                I I. 1..u1. II.~ ~1..:;
                                                                                                                                                                                  ? 4.1 ,l,3 1o
                                                                                                                                                                                 p P.o 11.0 /Jo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (j
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ~ If    9,1 1,1 11.r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4 /!, i.1 5.1 11,C                                I
                                                                                                                                                                      -
3-Liaf,tl'llenom.         ti          (J         tJ      t)/}      t7.o      /J A      -2.                                                               ()           0                                                    t!i          t:) /) ,9,:? o.o i'J.O
4-Binls
                             ., 3    0           tJ     00 00            tl.o          ,'J      (?        D        /.l.()         /J.o      IJ.n        (?                      t)            ,1.(J     /).0                t!i        0        0         /1.o       tl.O      I/. tJ

                          ""                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A   -

S-Cloud~ Dus~ et~                                       /)_/J .J.2.      .J.2           6        0        0        P.O            (J.O      IJ 0                      0         t)            t7. (J    DO O.o              /          (!>       I        J.o        ,1.17      J.o
6-lnsuffic.lnfa.          ..r   .r   0                   ,,. '     tJ.o .r:1            1       0         1   1.1· ().O 1.,-
                                                                                                                                                        /2
                                                                                                                                                                                 /)                                       ~.,                  3~ ~~4                          )d
7-Psydlolo1ical            /            I       ~       I.I         I.I ..?.2          .r       0        .1' .r.4 P.P -~4     0                         "             (J
                                                                                                                                                                      D         t)
                                                                                                                                                                                              IJ./J tJ.0 /J(J
                                                                                                                                                                                              IJ ti b.O ,f()            ..2             "I g I. 'I I. u              /). ()


                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ~,., -r4                                               0
8-UnknD•
!I-Other
                         .:TL"
                          .J        0
                                     0         ,7,
                                                J
                                                        27.,1 /} 0 )1.4 / /
                                                        .?:,. t).O .1.2  .,2                    0
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                   ~,,
                                                                                                         //, 1111 /J.o 1/U II
                                                                                                          :l.      tl.P ~-2  ,.2
                                                                                                                                                                  "
                                                                                                                                                                      0         II
                                                                                                                                                                                .2
                                                                                                                                                                                             2.r:1.. A.O
                                                                                                                                                                                              4. 1 t/.t> J..1              4           "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ;t.4- ;1J.J tl.O ~J.J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4 3.1/ (1.0 .J.t/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
    Total               £_;i,      13 9S' t.r:.z 14.1 1/IJp,                          u        Jo 93 t,7-'J J). .3 /A(J UJ                                        q 4~ 19.1 ,1().9 /IJIJ 3.s-                                          13 I/A.f S;l,J 11.( /00.
                       :1M'?e

                              .< <--
                                              ,£/ff.r

                                                  -;       -
                                                                   Fat!-
                                                                   /·--         "'           'T/OM
                                                                                              L-/o <,,:                ........   ✓
                                                                                                                                          ,., /          .,
                                                                                                                                                                 //-           "-
                                                                                                                                                                                                r. ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                             -.., __ K,.A'I'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ~I-Lo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    c:. ,.~,,,.,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                   Number             Per Cent                Number                PerCmt                  Nurrtler              Per Cent                Number               PerCmt
     Evaluation
~Balloon
                        Certain Doobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tola! Certain Doobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu Total Certain Doubtful Total

                          ..:l            I       3      9./ 4,J J.l(.                  tJ       2         2       P.h            /11.S" ,,,       ~
                                                                                                                                                            I         ..J           4         Jo        I,. I     fl        .2          A           4 .n            .r..3 111.,          I
l•Astronomical
2-Aircraft
                           /
                          ,..t          ~
                                          /      :7
                                                 9
                                                         ✓...- d.,'  9o
                                                         9/ l--l1.J J/,.4   ,,,_
                                                                                        ,tP
                                                                                        B
                                                                                                :l.
                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                          ~

                                                                                                          'i
                                                                                                                   h.O      111 . .r IIU'
                                                                                                                   .,,1-1.1 f.3 41.4 /,!
                                                                                                                                          /                           e>
                                                                                                                                                                 /J' .B
                                                                                                                                                                                    I         ,1.(J     .1/. IJ 2.o
                                                                                                                                                                                              u..1 3o,t, 11.13 / . r
                                                                                                                                                                                              ,,,,, AJ1 tl.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           " /.        (J        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ;u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          tl.t'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3-,_J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IJ.t'J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /J"K I<<.•
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (J.()



J.Litnt Phenom.
4-Birds
S-Cloud~ Oust, et~
                           /
                          t)
                              /
                                     />
                                     0
                                      0


                                                 0
                                                  I dJ /J./2
                                                  I 4.J' PA d.r
                                                                             /1.o
                                                                                       "
                                                                                       ,t7      0
                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                             I     A.0
                                                                                                                   ,,_,,, O.o t/0
                                                                                                                                  J:.?

                                                                                                                                  o.o
                                                                                                                                             f.J        /)
                                                                                                                                                         p
                                                                                                                                                        ,1
                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                  ()
                                                                                                                                                                                 tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                 0            P.o
                                                                                                                                                                                         o. o .IJI)
                                                                                                                                                                                 0 ti (l O.o AO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I.::)     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,tl.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           :7.L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .:u. 2.t.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ().()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                :2.1..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
6-lnsuffic.lnfo.           /         0            I 4,.
                                                        0 L1 /J, (J
                                                                   P.P      Ir         "/
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                   P.o
                                                                                                                   .(3 o.o
                                                                                                                                            IJ 0
                                                                                                                                            .n              /     (J              I .t.o tJ.o :?. "                        " "' ,<
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /J -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ..Ii.I.    IJ.0      .r.l,
l•Psycholoaical
8-Unknown
9-0ther
                          /
                           I
                           ;        0
                                     0
                                      (J

                                                 .? /J.I.
                                                 2
                                                  I 4.J            0.tl
                                                                /.J.{..
                                                                   /J,tl
                                                         qi A.0 q_ I
                                                                            -1..r-     p
                                                                                       4-
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                el
                                                                                               t:1
                                                                                                          0

                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                   /JO
                                                                                                         4- 1..21.1 d.O l,,2/.J
                                                                                                                   (1.11
                                                                                                                                  O.IJ


                                                                                                                                  tl.0
                                                                                                                                             /J.o


                                                                                                                                            PO
                                                                                                                                                        ,,t

                                                                                                                                                        ,?
                                                                                                                                                            7     0
                                                                                                                                                                  (J
                                                                                                                                                                      I

                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                 .5 41 ~.o 1,,./
                                                                                                                                                                                 ']          1,~3
                                                                                                                                                                                               IJ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                        /JLJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                        1/.IJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 14.!.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ~

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .8 .JI.I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           P.o

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ..7./,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0 1..21.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ti. 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                o.o

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,2.L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                   " (,
    Tot~                14           3 ;2:l 11.3 t J/.4                     ,,,.,.    J-1                /9 ltf.4 .!IC I/Pd. .?o J(j 1-'I to. Ji..l /t)(). 2'1                                                                          9 3J' '10 13.1 /a,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                    ,,.__ ~- - ,< ;,t.., r,-,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                           ,{,/                                                                                                                                                         ,,      ,.,,_,,,, ____
                                                                                                ,( - _._ ,'If·,✓-: --                                           ,n,       ~~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           l> -                          ·"'· - ...S".,..-..dr~n.
                                   Number                        Per Cent                     Number                        PerCenl                           Number                Percent                 Number                Per Cent
     Evaluation         Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total                 ertain Doubtful Tola! Certain Doubtful Total                     ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tot~
0-Balloon                /1          .J' 22             ?-? I      t f 2~/.            J.,f     '1       :n .J4_o il"                       1L.o         t             3         9 .:No /;:/.0 ·~-"                        .l.d        3        13 1/9                .u.      1.r:J
l•Aslronomical
2-Ai,craft
3-LightPhenom.
                           I
                         /.f
                              /
                                     0

                                      I
                                           I J,. 1)0 /. 3
                                     /o 23 /L.'i 1.1.o 2'1.'I
                                         .,,l J~ /3 ..u
                                                                                       ()
                                                                                       9 /0
                                                                                       0
                                                                                                 I

                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                               I   /J .n
                                                                                                         ,q /)_o /l3 :U3
                                                                                                          I      /.3 1..-1
                                                                                                                    ~" d_lJ ti.,
                                                                                                                                   /..3      J.j        .3
                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                        ()        0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                          ·I    4 1.2.tl 4.o 1/t...o
                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                              4.o A,0 4.o 11/
                                                                                                                                                                                              ,.o D.O 11,0 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /          3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4 /.,t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          J,.t. 4-.I .11d.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           l.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3.t. 4.!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,P_(J     l.:l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
4-Binls                       /      0     I /,3 /J. 0 1.3                             t'7      0                  tl.o                                 ,!)       .LJ           ,>7           tJ.'1
                                                                                                                                                                                                        "·" o.o             (7          I       I          tl.o /2               I.A
                                                                                                          "                                                                                                                                                                     ,,_,,,
5-Clouds, Dust, etc.
6-lnsuffic. ~fl).
7-Psydlo~~"'
                          "
                          .,-
                         ,,.,,I
                                    0
                                     ()


                                     ()
                                                 ()



                                                  I h
                                                     '·"
                                                .:,' [J
                                                                   .. 0
                                                                  /J (7
                                                                   A.()
                                                                             ,f,(J

                                                                             /..J
                                                                             /3
                                                                                      . /J
                                                                                       ,f
                                                                                        J
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                          j
                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                    /1.IJ
                                                                                                                   /(1.7 /.J.o
                                                                                                                    /. l
                                                                                                                                  A.O


                                                                                                                                  (}A    J.:t
                                                                                                                                             do
                                                                                                                                            1111
                                                                                                                                                        /


                                                                                                                                                        " a 1
                                                                                                                                                            j
                                                                                                                                                                      (J
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                                                                                    /         4o d.o 4.o     t:J
                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0 P.o o.o ..:lo
                                                                                                                                                                                              ~A  ()_,:, i(J  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 d        tJ.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ;,o 2.H tJ.o W.t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I I., ,§_ t) /~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      tJ.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
1-Unlenown                           0          ,lo l..2t."        D.O :..-,.1.0 /,;J           0        /:l. vt.o                t:J.o /(,o            '?                                    '19IJ     '1.0     ~r,,     /✓           ,!7      /.r /'7tf 4'.0 117.'i
!1-0lh"


    Total              /.o
                           /         I           ~      /.J

                                   11 "?'? 1'1.9 ;.2.1 /(It).
                                                                   I.~ .2., 4

                                                                                     .r).
                                                                                               ..:l       &;       .r.~
                                                                                                                   :?.?

                                                                                               ;u 1-1.r I/Q1 Jo.? l/11.:!
                                                                                                                                             Slo        d

                                                                                                                                                       :Zo        5
                                                                                                                                                                      I             I
                                                                                                                                                                                              ""
                                                                                                                                                                               2r ltJP ,<ti.ti •/,Pt/.
                                                                                                                                                                                                        4.(J      4.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,!)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       JI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I. ~I P.O 71

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               14 IU9 /3.J IP/7.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                            228
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
I
I
                                                                       ~VAi. (/AV,?11                    4!"          {?A',IFeT            ,f"/Gh'T/Al6S                     ,rq,e             ,£Lt.         fl"E&'S:               ff        t:~LMS                ,eua,ergLJ

I                                 _,r     .. _
                                       ltlmbe!
                                                          -        -
                                                             Per Cent
                                                                       ;'~A


                                                                        J,, ••
                                                                                    Av.,,, ~r,C'II/


                                                                                     Number
                                                                                                   ,(. ,- <.-
                                                                                                                  ,7,r


                                                                                                           Per Cent
                                                                                                                              .o~ v-r./,1/'6
                                                                                                                                  _,_.
                                                                                                                                                                Number
                                                                                                                                                                         /.7_d_r;:-;1.,-
                                                                                                                                                                         JI.>~
                                                                                                                                                                              './.
                                                                                                                                                                                            <"'.
                                                                                                                                                                                      Percent
                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,.,,,, ,.,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,_   -
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A/t?r

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Per.Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <-r"AT6".L)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1 ,_Lo

                                                                                                                                                         ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain D"'btful Total Certain Doubtful Tot•
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           s.~A            ,,h,




            Evaluation         Certain Doubtful Tolal Certain Doubtful Tolal certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,., JI .J'.I 1                                        ,; II.lo 4.5 11. J
I   0-Balloon
        I-Astronomical
    2•Aircrlft
                                 A
                                 3 .J
                                 4- I
                                              I

                                                    5
                                                     I
                                                    //
                                                          tf-o         ,1:(J ~()
                                                          ,,jA_tJ I,{'.() r,:;o
                                                          ,;11., ./: &I ?,::,:;
                                                                                            2
                                                                                            I
                                                                                             J
                                                                                                         J
                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                          I       t.,. JI.I II,/ 22.t
                                                                                                                  .f :J1.2 Ill 137.J
                                                                                                                  2. Ill J/I '?1.2
                                                                                                                                  IJ.b ,,_,,
                                                                                                                                                               IP
                                                                                                                                                                .j
                                                                                                                                                               .r               4
                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                    I I
                                                                                                                                                                                      ✓
                                                                                                                                                                                      (j
                                                                                                                                                                                                    tfd
                                                                                                                                                                                                             ~-' 11?.S"
                                                                                                                                                                                                   llf.t. / ~ j ' ?g /               3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      )..           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   X?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /_~.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             d-,, l?.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4.3 /'1.,J
    H1jlltP111110m.               b       0         /]    /J.tf        ,. (J     /J.,,     /,)       0            /'}
                                                                                                                             ~-"                               ,P           I!:)      t)            In
                                                                                                                                                                                                        ""                 ().()     i!)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,.,       .,0        n        t)_,,      tJ.o       /1/J


I   4-Birds
    ~Cloud~ Dus~ el~
    6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
                                  "
                                  " "
                                 .;,     0
                                          0         ()
                                                    A
                                                    ?
                                                          '·"
                                                          d_(J

                                                          1.r.o
                                                                       ,D.f) 0. IJ

                                                                       11.0
                                                                       o.o /5.()
                                                                                (). ()     "
                                                                                           IJ
                                                                                           ,,I
                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                         ,:,
                                                                                                                  /]
                                                                                                                  I?
                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                  ,.,
                                                                                                                             /I.A
                                                                                                                             D.(J (),C
                                                                                                                                       ,,_,,,
                                                                                                                                      A.O


                                                                                                                            1/.I t1. 0 //. I
                                                                                                                                                ao
                                                                                                                                                               ,t)

                                                                                                                                                               /1

                                                                                                                                                               ,,-/        D
                                                                                                                                                                            e,
                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                      vJ

                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                      7·
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,9 " An
                                                                                                                                                                                                   /J"
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ~Id
                                                                                                                                                                                                             J. I 11
                                                                                                                                                                                                             /J" 2/.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /1/]

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ~         C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                e,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          L)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          :t,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /J.LJ

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   tl.O ti .o IJ.IJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I.?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               tJ.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.n

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /)_()      fl'/
    7-Psydlolo~cal               II      0          e?    4.d
                                                                       '·" ao                        D                       /).IJ     A.A      O,tJ                       0          I?            /)I)     /P.b         'l /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     " 0        0         0        /).LJ      ().()      C).tJ


I   11-~..
    9-01111'
                                 ,?
                                 0        "
                                          CJ
                                                    0
                                                    C)
                                                          d.n IJ.() {).tJ
                                                          (}tJ tl. () {J. tJ
                                                                                           ,,,
                                                                                           J         0
                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                  /]
                                                                                                                            /I/
                                                                                                                            tJ.tl
                                                                                                                                       /),()
                                                                                                                                       P.o
                                                                                                                                                //./
                                                                                                                                                (J.n
                                                                                                                                                           4
                                                                                                                                                               ;l.        4
                                                                                                                                                                           eJ         </ 1;u /) () /:2.i
                                                                                                                                                                                      L,.          £1 l;I..J ·1f{f{
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          9 J9.t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I       IJ.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              {).()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              J ..s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1¥ I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4 q

           Total                        ~          :lo 1£o :U:o /00.                        t,       -5          4 LL.? 3J.1 /()().                      :v                II J,. 6s., J4.4 /()() 19                                           4-        ;:l.3 h./.. 11.4 /IJQ,

I
                               IS




                                  /. / 5,r,-,,,_.,DS: -s,Nf,.,-_, __                                             ~,, ~-
I
                                                                                                         ;(-                                                             /),,~~           ~,c       M . .,-. .-~                     7),,.,,,, .-._./             '-r-     ,l'..-.,,..-eb
                                        Number                      Per Cent                        Number PerCenl                 Nuntler               Per Cent                Number               PerC81t
             Evaluation        Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu Total Certain O...btful Tot~
        0-Balloon               /:l..     .J 15' 11/1 -1. '1 2t/.t g                                  II          l'I       1/.I l✓.3 2C.Q                         .5        ~            S" 1.1             . [ / /?,f              /I         4 15' {,.(,. 2.4- 9, tJ
        I-Astronomical                         I ac I/. I./, 3                                           A   6' 42                     .u -tLJ                     .J            I     ,; 1.7 .:u. ltJ..3                                       I .1.51 9. () ,4£ /2"
I
                                  I)        I                                                                                                                                                                                       /.[
        2-AircraH                 .l       1 tS- /.~., /1.r Nt 1.;.,                                     J' 17 IL.?                    1.-'I 2.U                   I        3          ff           .u. 1.1 lll..f 1:2.                         1( 2-f 1. J.                   9(. lt.S
        3-Litht Phenom.          ~           I       j     71          /I. 4. 9             ()           0        ,?         ,i?,(J    IJ.o      //.Cl         ()           <)         /1           /J.tJ     /J.,,       t).(J      .2.            I      _g      /2         I/,(. I.S
                                                                                            eJ                                                                                                      ~-:, ,!J.IJ -.1
        4-Birds
                                 " "                0      P.o ll.o
                                                             "·" ¢9 JII
                                                                                 t?,t:J               J           I          I) tJ      1.4       /,4
                                                                                                                                                  ,,, ~
                                                                                                                                                               2
                                                                                                                                                                           "0         £
                                                                                                                                                                                                    "·"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ..z..       I         .J 1.:i. P-'1                  IR



I
        ~Cloud~ Dus~ et~          0       0         ()    ifl.Q                  (J.C)               0            I          Id        ll o                                           t:J        t'l.11                    ,:),(J    (:J        0                              IJ.,:,    /?.IJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0 ''-''
        6-lnsuffic.lnfo.          ~       D         ..J' ,14           ,9 ()                         0            IIllf.3 AO !Sf                               ,f           ()         !;' 21.I' t/.tl                    ?,>,:;    A.~         0        4fi ;?1.7 &/.t:1               2n
        7-Psycholoeical                             n                                       ..t                   ~  .?.f ll.o 1.s                                              0      I .?.( (/.(1 :z.t .3                                     I          a       l,i
        8-UnknOMI              ~, (J      0

                                          0
                                                           /1.(J
                                                   ,,,, 1:l.li         tJ.O
                                                                       (),,,
                                                                                 4tJ
                                                                                 12.S       9
                                                                                                      d
                                                                                                      ,.          y ID..(
                                                                                                                          II." I 1.!5°                         II
                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                             a        ti H~ /J,(J 2K.Z                              ..n        ~         :29 11.¢
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /J.~ .2 ,'I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              "'·" -/~/L
                                                                                                     ,.,
I   9-0l!ler                     4-      a           t/ tt:.           tl.o                 7                     1 9.7 ,!I.I) ~7                               4                      ¢ /tJ,J 11.IJ IO.J' 114                                 0         ,q .t.4-
                                                                                 ~-I.
                                                                                                                                                                                "                                                                                             "·ll K".~

           Total               49 l:Z I. I ltU, 19.7 /AA .f"_j                                      19 'h. 1-11, ~t.4 /AA. J3                                               L .1'1 ilJ. /J~4 //JI) /Jt,                                        j/        /,? ,fl.¢ Ii.(, /,Pd


I
                                                                       EWIIAV4AI
                                                                       rtJ,e, {/?t,;1?4T//hU                               ~,:-       S/L       ·-       ,,.               f1AA
                                                                                                                                                                                      --..s: .. ,,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                .,. -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ..::t.t? l//f/G ""' "A/Ge       /?,g'J6~T".<:
                                   _.., ..r.eA--fJ>
                                       Number
                                                              -
                                                             Pe,Ce11t
                                                                       /,,.
                                                                                      Number
                                                                                                    6 - ,- _i:: ., . . ,~ ..
                                                                                                            Pe,C111t                Nuntier
                                                                                                                                                               /



                                                                                                                                                          Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                          J/- ' -
                                                                                                                                                                                  Number               Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .31- Ln .!',,----~-<



I
            Evaluation
        0-Balloon                                                                            ,,
                               Certain Doubtful Total Certain O...btful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain D"'btful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu Total Certain 0...btful Total
                                   t1         t1     0     IP.d 41.0             tJ.0                     I)          tJ     ,,,, t1.tJ .t?.O ,IJ                               0          t? tl.l!J II. tl I ti          .a         I          ~          .f      f.1 13.J -J/1,,
                                                                                                                                                                                           £. h ..r ~f() .f;ts

                                             "'
        l•Astranomical           II                /7 1.n..1 l.t'n ,/~S                     J            t)        ~        41.1 AA 1-v't.1                    :2.          4                                                        J          :I.       .:I      1..1 l1J 2tJ."
        2-Aircratt                ,;                K .t'. (J l✓.o ~{).()                    J           0         7 :uo II..? 2s.o                                         I             :2.       L.2 t.i /~.4                         I      ~         .:I      I,.? 11.?. :ZO,;;
                                                                                    ,,,                                                                         /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,,,,
I                                                       .9.o           "·"                                                   ,,                                                                                  P.o
        3-LijlllP!lenom.          ~                 n                                                              0 Al t/.C' /J/"l                                          ~                                                                  0                  /),()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           n.P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     " a
                                              ()                    /J.()                                /J                                                        A                   L)            AA                                                    /)                  /I.I)

        4-Birds
                                  "           I      I
                                                           "·" 00 ao
                                                           ,,,_
                                                                       :/.~- .:2.5"          t!)     /J               0                ll. tJ    n,,                I       0               I L - , 1).(7                  ~2         ti        e,        /?       /)t,       /JO        0.()



                                                                                                                                                                   ,,"
        ~Clood~ Dus~ et~          /)         ()     tJ                                       ll          0            0      /)"       () I)    tUJ                        0           /)           /Jp t). ()             ().t)     ti                    ,,:,               (J.Q C).t)
        6-lnsuffic.lnlo.          1-                ¥     IIJ.o        (J.4     ilt>.P       p       0             0
                                                                                                                             "·"   0,.,         ,,,,                a       0          Ci            /J.(J P. 0           tJ.P        I         t!)        I       ""
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /..7       (}.()     11-7
                                              " I
                                                                       ~-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ~,..
I                                                                      ,.o .:2.5                                          ~-'                                                                                '·"                                                   £.1 Po l/..7'
        7-PsychologiCII                                    Jj"
        11-Unlcno..
                                  I
                                 .r
                                             0
                                             tJ     s     /41..J'      /),(1     /-?,:;     "
                                                                                            3
                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                      tJ     ()_;,
                                                                                                                   J .1(o /) IJ
                                                                                                                                        ,?.(J
                                                                                                                                                %,()               I,
                                                                                                                                                                            ()

                                                                                                                                                                            0          ~
                                                                                                                                                                                          ()        /) (I

                                                                                                                                                                                                   J?.J 0.0 l.f7.s- 4-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                "0            /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (,/ )1(.1           ().Q      2t..7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,,,,.,
        9-0ther                  .J          I      .d     7J'                  ''1 ()       J
                                                                                                     "                 /     f.1       ll.o      ,f:.1             tJ       I             J         /),0      L:l ~.t                /)         0          e?      11.o       11."


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     q
I          Total               .7t 14 l4t; L,-" 1J~I) 1140. /;I.                                     0           1;2.       IAA.0      i!J.o 14a           /tJ              t, /{ ,i.r .11.J' /(JO.                                             6 !1.f '°-IJ                  -1,.0 ltJ()




                                 61 S<F,-o«.o~ - .5"JJI,.,.. ___                                    6" _,_                            ---                               t)v,,,. .;,,, ,.,, .,.______                                 7) ,,;;i .,-,,,.,, A 'a.-


I
                                                                                                                        A                                                                                                                                                   (.,-A...-»
                                                                                                                              ./.

                                       ltlmbe!               Per Cent                              Number                            Per Cent                    Number                Percent                 Number                 Per Cent
             Evaluation        Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tot~                ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total                   ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain OCNJbtful Total Certain Doubtful Tot~
        0.Balloon
        l•Astnioomical
                                  ~       J-         B' L. 7 //! 11.~
                                                           t) ()        t.7 J..7
                                                                                            J'            ~        ~ 11,q
                                                                                                                  2,, _:(.{..   ~,      1 I 2S:/J              !
                                                                                                                                                               J
                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                4
                                                                                                                                                                                       .J' .1nA IJ.o 2/J.O
                                                                                                                                                                                       'f .:IAO ';?t.? eft..7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I ✓ t_ll 2.tl R /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                J~ ;t, /1/.(I /0.(I

I
                                  /)      -~        .5'                                     /                I                                    11.                                                                                                                                    "" 0
                                                                                                                             u.                                                                                                      t          ..r 1/ 1:/.tl IP.() 21.0
                                  4-
                                      '
        2-Aircraft                                 /{)  l.'1 IV tu                           I               I     :z.                 l.t..     '1.2-         p                J       / P.o L.7 .,7
                                                    t, ,1.¢ ()/J d d

                                                                                            .,,' ,,
        3-Lijllt Pheno•.         ;J..    0                                                                                  .:JIil                             I                            {.? /).0 ,t,.}                           I          ,:,                :2.t:I
                                                                                            ,.,     "    -0                            &I.ti 21-~
                                                                                                                                       ,o
                                                                                                                                                                            0           J                                                                  I                  IJ,O          !/.t:)
        4-Birds
                                  ,,,
                                  /)      D         tJ     ~()          () IJ     /1()                   ()        tJ        ,o                  11,,              t)       ()         /}            AO /1.0                AA        ,P        (?        tJ        p.,,      /1.,,       ().I}




I
                                                                                                                             11.o                                  (')                                                               ~
        5-Clouds, Dust. etc.
        6-lnsutric. •to.          ~
                                             0      (?

                                                    // K'i
                                                          i!J.CJ        ().4      tlt)
                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                  tJ
                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                       "·" (l.tJ
                                                                                                                             u .. /).0 .?.t
                                                                                                                                                                                0       t:)         ti." 0. 0             LJ.t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ()        0        /).tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              'f ,4.(J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               /)."
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         l¢n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            t).(J


        7-Psydlo~&ical             I
                                          0
                                         ;l.
                                                             "·"
                                                    .J' .l.2 4.4
                                                                                  f?.9
                                                                                  ,t,_.,    t7       (J
                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                  /J         ,,,All.o ,!)/}
                                                                                                                                                               ()
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                /.)

                                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                                        tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                    /]"
                                                                                                                                                                                                    tl.o '- 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,. 0          ,?.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           r,,.7     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ()

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (7        I       .2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ().e,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (!).ti     .1.0
                                                                                             9
        11-Unkno..             /2         0        /:2, 21,?
                                                    .5' L.7
                                                                        /) (7    tr,,7               0             ,;
                                                                                                                            "· I t:l." ft.I
                                                                                                                            tJ.o s,.t:. ?. ..
                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                   J
                                                                                                                                                                                ()
                                                                                                                                                                                e,
                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,.7          A   A     .t...7     <?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    b
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,.   9 /l.t;         A.n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R. o ,n.n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1/"'/J

I
        9-Qlhe,                   .3                                    tJ (!1 /..7                  I                                                                                 I                                   L..7'         J
                                         "                                                  t?                    /                                                                                              AO                                                .2.()



    i      Total               .-Z9     j(,,       4s t,a.a J.r.t. /(/(J. .2.3                       [           ,U IJ.f /7,&J In/I                                9        t.        /[           ,:u .I7.[1/oo. ,J .r 1.r ✓o 1'7AA l~.9.tJ I~

I                                                                                                                                     229


I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                    ~

                          -~
                                          tfl,fS

                                   ,;-,.-,._.J.D
                               Numbe<
                                                         A""

                                                     Per Cent
                                                                 EML&-nt?AI
                                                                 ;cu.
                                                                 ll..rs
                                                                                   ,,,,,,,,~//711/
                                                                                               ,/,-/O
                                                                                           Number
                                                                                                        e,,=
                                                                                                               OF
                                                                                                                <,
                                                                                                                 Percent
                                                                                                                         MJ£4r
                                                                                                                                S/6h'7"/A/"-
                                                                                                                                _,_    ~




                                                                                                                                                                 Number
                                                                                                                                                                       ,11,.,1       o,e
                                                                                                                                                                       //-_,r,, .SF--, ••
                                                                                                                                                                                       Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                r.   L/J✓,UA//..




                                                                                                                                                                                                              Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -l'En                c?/? ✓Ft!7S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2/-~0 ~~-H..DC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
     Evaluation        Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total                ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tobi                           ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tobi Certain Doubtful Tobi Certain Doubtful Tot~
!J.Balloon
11-Astronomical
2•Aucraft
                         2
                          67

                         ;I..
                                    ,::,
                                    ?
                                    0
                                               ,:l /J_/J 120 /J/J
                                              /5' dLI/,/ -?;'.9 j'_!,J
                                               2, I/. I t?.O Ill
                                                                                       tJ
                                                                                      4-
                                                                                          I
                                                                                                    /)
                                                                                                    C
                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                tJ ,u?             ao
                                                                                                                                   12_,?
                                                                                                               (I' l ✓.✓.Y' ,:J.tJ ~q.'q
                                                                                                               2, I/./ I/./ 22.t.
                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                              4
                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                         ()
                                                                                                                                                                         :2
                                                                                                                                                                        -~
                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                     I,,
                                                                                                                                                                                        ~-7 /7,/J /4.1
                                                                                                                                                                                        2t.7 1/5.3 4'&2&
                                                                                                                                                                                     4 t-7 21?.tJ 2t.J                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,;L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        t:)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  "  Jl~t) 4/J_ /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I /tJ.O 0./J /t:J,,:;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t, 1,:J./.. //J,,:? 2/J.t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .e-~~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                         ,,,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
3-Lighl Phenom.                     0          /)      /J/J     /J/J     ,? /J            /)     /'J           12        t?.t? t:20 (7-,c;                    tJ         t:J        ,? t:ltJ CJ.O tJ.O                      IP          L1        t:l       ,1.1)       t:7.0
4-Birds                  t:J       0           t2 /J_/J /J/7 OJJ                      t?         0             t?         40 0,/J t?.d                        /)        0            /J '?/J /;_,? .,,,..,                  /J          /7        /?       ao i?.t? _o,...-,
~Clouds, Oust.etc.       p          0          0 4,,';J /J, /J /?.~                   /l        ,!)            ,?         o,,:; t?-0 a,:,                     .b        0           ,? 1,1,,:i ✓?/1 0.0                      t)         0         0      t:l.O atJ               /?.,':)

6-lnsuftic. Info.        tJ         t:J        /J     !?.O 0.0 tJ.,:J                  /        0              I         (/. I  /J.,:? //./                   A                     t? l,-7..o
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,.,,., ,.,,.,        /)         (J         0     ao /?.O ao
                                                                                                                                                                        ,,,"'
7-PsydDlo(ical
s-~..
9-0ther
                         t:J
                          J
                         t)
                                   0



                                   "
                                    0
                                               12
                                                I
                                               (l
                                                      ,?_I? ,17/) 40
                                                      5.'t, t?.O 5:C
                                                      ao Cl.() O.t?
                                                                                      /)
                                                                                      ~
                                                                                      tJ
                                                                                                0

                                                                                                0"
                                                                                                               0         d. /J tJ.tJ
                                                                                                                         /J.0
                                                                                                               2, :tf.t. /J.O :tt.z
                                                                                                               IJ /J.t2 /2.t? ao
                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                              2.
                                                                                                                                                              I        "
                                                                                                                                                                       ()
                                                                                                                                                                                     I /...7  0./7 t-7
                                                                                                                                                                                     2, ✓ ?.I 0.;J //.J
                                                                                                                                                                                     I ,;,; t:?.tJ &-.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  tJ tJ.t!J ,a t7 (). 0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  £
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /     /,?/2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I/,<!,;, /(7.t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /1,,:J lt?-0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 21?.?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                   '/' Ii tf,/.I J'.U /(l(J.                          ff                                 lff'.f //./ v~                                 5' 1.r tf,,t,.; 5'.J'-3 ICM.                                    ¢' /0 11• .a /J f!'atJ l(J/7.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
    Total               II                                                                       /         (j                                                 //J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            "

                                                                                                                                                                                      ~-                                     n.,1 11 -. _,,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                A,/ ./H ___
                          /,. I        <'1-     /_
                                                       - .s-.AI-~---                           tf-..Jo                   '1.-/.,_ t:_r                                /),,,,_                                                                           •• r          <"-~r..-_.
                                  Number             Per Cent               Number                Per COit                 Nunler               Percent                 Number                                                                                PerCmt
     Evaluation        Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tobi Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total Cl!flain Doubtful Tobi Certain Doubtful Total Ce!lain Doubtfu                                                                  Total Certain Dcubtful Total
0-Balloon                 .J        ~           K l.?.tJ ~1 .1/. 7                    4             ()         4 I/.// 4.t? //,I.I                            J             I        ~ rG:o 5,tJ 2ai,                       ,!l         4- 4  /J/J !.8'. .z !..t
                                        I                                             6                                                                        .r                                                           9           4 /.? 1f?U g'.t, :z~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
 I-Astronomical           I                     :2. ~.! ~ f %.t                                 ,<)            &- /:(I ,2,:J 17./                                         d.         'f 25:tJ ftJ. tJ .15:17
2·Aircraft                 t            I       '/' 2"./        .✓
                                                                 .3 J'tl.g'           3         J-             F rt 1dJ £2.f                                      /       ,j         .J' 5.tJ /t).tJ 15.tJ                  7            I R ;;/.! .Pt? /tf,, q
3-Li&htPhenom.            0         0           l'74.t? 0/J Cl./.?                        I     ,a                 I      2?       /lt?         t.9           0         ~            .z t?.I'/ //J,/7 100                   II          0        t?        17.t? tJ./} I/?_,,
4-Birds                   C        0           /7 lt2t? 'c?. tJ t?. tl
                                                       ,, ,.,
                                                                                      ti!:)      0             tl t?.tl 0/7 ,?,r?                             tJ        0            /J      /1,0      at? t?. tJ           p           0         /7      - ,.,  t?, tJ t).,?
S-Clouds. Dus~ etc.
S-lnsuffic.lnfo.
7-Psychological
                         J
                          "
                          4-
                          I)
                                    0
                                    0
                                   11
                                               t?         atJ 0,.0
                                               d' 11.4 t?.t? /7.¢
                                               t? t?.t? /2/J 41'7
                                                                                      tl
                                                                                      f
                                                                                           /
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                 I              I 11'7.0 2.9 f.9
                                                                                                               J' %.t /J.O JU
                                                                                                               I          ~-? /,J.tJ 2.9
                                                                                                                         .!;. ',t 4/J li'I. ft'
                                                                                                                                                              tfl
                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                         "          /7
                                                                                                                                                                                    t?
                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                             /J./7 O.tJ tJ,t?
                                                                                                                                                                                             tJ.IJ t7. /] t].t)
                                                                                                                                                                                              ~tJ 0.0 .50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  J/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /J.,?        ,?_ /7

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        :ttd tl.O 111,, fl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /J. /] t?.tJ Ll,rJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2,fr /?.O 119."5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /Jn

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
8-Unkno'MI                         0           ./ i/5-17 1'7,:) If.CJ                II          0         II                                                   I        0           I       t>-0 Cl.Cl 5:t?               /;1.         cJ       1:t,
9-0ther


    Tot~
                         .2 0
                        If
                                               !2, .i'.1 /J.tJ $'.1


                                   ¥ :;3 SU, 117.'✓ ~ 2.'I
                                                                                     tl          0


                                                                                                t,
                                                                                                               t7         /.) /J



                                                                                                          5.r !n9 /7. I /PP,
                                                                                                                                      /J.t} t?. ,1


                                                                                                                                                          12..-
                                                                                                                                                                  I

                                                                                                                                                                         ~
                                                                                                                                                                          I         ~        ~(J       S:o 10.tJ

                                                                                                                                                                                   ,,2o V.:I'/.& ¢'0.o 1,:,a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            JJ.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1¢P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  f.,      ✓. I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        11 d4 &'It Ji'.<./ lt7tJ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,., (J     4/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                       1}f8L,f

                             $'     f'.

                               Number
                                                ,_       ,,,,. I~--
                                                     Per Cent               Number
                                                                                               L'- IO J,,-_ ... .,,.,('
                                                                                                   PerCmt                  Nuntier               Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                         ,.
                                                                                                                                                                        //- .:,,,.,
                                                                                                                                                                         Number
                                                                                                                                                                                             ,:-,_~,,,,.                              ~/-/_~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -- PerCmt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ./~.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
     Evaluation        Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tobi Certain Dollltful Total Certain Doobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Ce!lain Doubtfu                                                                 Total Certain Dcubtful Total
                          ,,,                                                                                                                                                                                                                              aa c?.t? tltJ
0-Balloon
 I-Astronomical         ,.)1
                                    tl          (7     /J.t? t?.t?
                                  .29 6Z ff.7 ~;(S $'5.2.
                                                                          tJ. tJ      ~
                                                                                      /          ..,tJ %'0 ~I l..?J.
                                                                                                               tJ.        ,!l
                                                                                                                     1f.7 6
                                                                                                                              tJ
                                                                                                                           /J/,

                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                           (7   t?. tJ                               t7 41'7 tJ. tJ CJ.O
                                                                                                                                                                                      7 /./ 7 II./ 11f'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,!/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   c?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I 5tJ.0              /). ,1 6{J.{.
                         .2                                                                                                                                                                                                  ti
                                                                                                                   I ?./
                                                                                                                                                              "         I
2·Aircraft                          0           ?. .?.S cJ. tJ            5..?        I          ,?                                CJ.,:7        f./                                     /    ,?~      /I. I     //,/                   0          t?      at? t2. tJ CJ.Ll
                                                                                                                ,., t:J,,:; atJ tJ. /)                                                                                                                    ..,,,., ,.,_ ,1 /).(/
3·Light Phenom.
4-Birds
5-Cloud~ Dus~ et~
6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
                          A
                          /)
                         ,!)
                         ..2
                                   0
                                    0


                                    n          0
                                                (7
                                                //
                                                       17.tJ (7, tJ '✓'l"'
                                                      17./J     0.tJ
                                                       ,,,, O.t) tJ t)
                                                                         ,,,,_,,
                                                                                      LJ
                                                                                      II
                                                                                      ti        0
                                                                                                 tJ
                                                                                                    0


                                                                                                                cJ
                                                                                                                   ,:,    , , /?

                                                                                                                          4/J tJ.tJ
                                                                                                                                      //.0      (J_,?

                                                                                                                                                CJ.o
                                                                                                                                                              19
                                                                                                                                                              b
                                                                                                                                                              II
                                                                                                                                                                        ,?

                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                     a
                                                                                                                                                                                     L7
                                                                                                                                                                                              /1 ,1



                                                                                                                                                                                     CJ a,, ,...,0 O.&
                                                                                                                                                                                                        /J, tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                        ,.,,.., l?.0 1'7/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 tJ.O       LJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            t!)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (J

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /?.t? cl. CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,., /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /J,tJ I/?, tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                    0          2-      J'.5 t?.O 3.3                 II
                                                                                                "              ~          n.,:; /Jt) 1-<lO
                                                                                                                          ,, /, /1.0 tJ.,.,                   "         0            t? 11, t?          /}_ (7   0. 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,,,_,, ,, 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0           d          /J 12./J            t:J. t? tJ. tJ
7•Psychoto1ical
&-Unknown
9-0ther
                         p
                         .J
                          J
                                    "          I?      ,?_,? .0/J 17.tl

                                               J' 1-? ,7,,., ;/.?
                                    "I z I/.~ /.6                        5-2.
                                                                                      .n
                                                                                     ..z "tl
                                                                                      0
                                                                                                "
                                                                                                               cJ
                                                                                                               :2,
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                          111.2.
                                                                                                                         IJJ.(J
                                                                                                                                      /1,.,

                                                                                                                                      O.CJ O,o
                                                                                                                                                d.2
                                                                                                                                                              p
                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                              ~
                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                        d
                                                                                                                                                                                     0 ,,,.,

                                                                                                                                                                                         I //. I
                                                                                                                                                                                     /J 1/J 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                       0,/?
                                                                                                                                                                                                        /J.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 //./
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,., ,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ~,., /J, /J lat?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5P.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,4,/}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (}, ✓?   IKn.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tJ.tJ tJ. /}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
    Total               .? I      ..?CJ       t, I 5t2B 1/U.. llt}t)                 ✓          '1        //             5t,.lf t,5'.i.. rt?o.                1         Z,          q 11-1.Ji 12.2. /tJO.                   '7,         t)       .:l. /tlao c?.o 1100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
     Evaluation
().Balloon
                         6 J <...---./_,., -5 N .. , ___,,

                          I
                               Number


                                    tJ
                                                    PerCE11t


                                                I II.I t?.v' //./
                                                                           Number
                                                                                                L-31'1 ..,,
                                                                                                 Percent


                                                                                                    ()
                                                                                                                        Number


                                                                                                                ; I~ I tJ.tJ V
                                                                                                                                / -
                                                                                                                                             Per Cent


                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                      ,-,,,,.,. Jn M
                                                                                                                                                                     Number
                       Certain Doubtful Tobi Certain Doubtful Tobi certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total ~rtain Doubtful Tobi Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tot~

                                                                                          J                                                                               tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                           Percent
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ✓----~




                                                                                                                                                                                      I .ttl.c. tJ.CJ ~P.O                  p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7',,.~Ar/6,V




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           t)     tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,.,,,,.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,?t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  r     ~ ... r.&J)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (J IJ      ,, ,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                        I                                             »                        d '1./ 2·U I?/.//
                          11                                                                                                                                                                                                           14 2.t/ 2-71 3f'I i66.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
l•Astmnomical                                   I I.JI.J II. I //./                                  ?                                                            I         ,::,     /       ?/1,/..   ✓'l.,.,   ~/)       /(l
2-Aircraft               LJ       .r           5" 11/J 55? 65.t.
                                                                ,, ,.., ,?.1'7
                                                                                      .2            ()         !2,ldt t:J./J lix:.t                               I      ()          I Wot? ,()_/] 2aP                          /       I   I :, K ?fl' ,;:r.
3-Li&htPhSIOm.           h         0           t?      ,,,,,                          .2         0             2,   11?2.. ,!7.(J Vi?.2-                      t7         ,,,         /)46 a~ (7./J                              ,,,     0         /}          /)_()     0.0 ().0
4-Birds                  0         (J           .? I/? /J       /J /J    ✓'l/J        ~          0             t? I /?.cJ tJ./.J ao                           t?        0            /J       /).J'J   t?.tJ O.()           Cl          0         t?          ,,,,      ,_()      /J,O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
5-Clouds, Oust. etc.      I)       0                  il.Jt? /1-✓1
                                                              /ltJ                    ti                       t?                                             p                     J? 1/?.J?          tJ.,?     /1_/,      I)                    /7         tl,d
                                                                                                /7                       J?.,1 ,?,() t).1'7
                                                                                                                                                                        "                                                              0
                                               ✓?                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,!,,?
6-lnsuffit. -.to.         I        0                                                                           a         t7.tJ a.o ao                                   0                    lac, tJ.t:J /.J.O              6                      61/L.7              /) ,tJ /£,7
7-Psydlolo~cal            ~        u
                                                I II, I /1/J 111,1
                                                o !o.o 10.0 O.CJ
                                                                                      ,tl
                                                                                      D
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                 d             tJ         .,.,~ l'?./J ,? .,.,
                                                                                                                                                              ,tl
                                                                                                                                                               4        0
                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                    ,1       .,.,_.., /J./J /J.O            t7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       t:J        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,_,,        IJ.O ,j_ I}
&-Unknown                0                      CJ At?          ,,.,.,
                                                              ,,,_,.,                 ~          (7            :2,       IN.. t7.tJ             IR.2,         ,.2                   -2.. l9'ti.ti /1. ,:J flao              J           0        .f         9~                   '/.3
                                                                                                                                                                       ""
                                   0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    11.4
~°'"
   Total
                         I

                        _g
                                   tJ

                                   ~
                                               I II I /.J/1 111./

                                              q J.J..J l,t-1 IO(J.
                                                                                      t)


                                                                                      ~
                                                                                                 0

                                                                                                .;'
                                                                                                               tJ         /.!t::

                                                                                                           II 12.7 211 lt?t?.
                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                      (l. ✓?    /J.C)          tJ

                                                                                                                                                              5"       (J
                                                                                                                                                                                    0        /1. /J    rJI.} l,-1.a


                                                                                                                                                                                   ✓ (tJ().t} tJ.tJ 1,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /l.(
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0         I          :z,g

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I~ .J'~ .rl.3 41.'1 la?.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.()      .:Z.'I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                230
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
I
I
                                                                           EJ/;IL(l,fr'/C:W'.             t2F          (l,fl.J£er                   v'Jftt'.rtlfl6S                  62&' d£t,                 </E,U,S             ,!?y' Nuus ,f'E,o{l,<z:gp
                                                                                                                             ,,,,,,.
I                               £ S;;co"".J
                                     Number
                                                                PR
                                                           Per Cent
                                                                           &",,,,

                                                                           L,n.s
                                                                                    Number
                                                                                             '/,l;l',.-r/CJ,,v
                                                                                                           6-Jt> S'£COIVL7S
                                                                                                          Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                                                           S/,<;H'?'          L

                                                                                                                                                        Percent
                                                                                                                                                                            Y.~,£,!.t)t,/
                                                                                                                                                                     J/-31) SFctJA'.PS
                                                                                                                                                                                Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                     a le

                                                                                                                                                                                                      Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                               ~ J ,.,       , /11/G     VEt.LCJW t:J'l!!JG:t!J.:s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3/-J:',t} 0£CtJIVOS

             Evaluation      Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total icertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tot~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,
I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0 ll_n
    0-Balloon                    L)                      t) d. /)          l?.0 0.0            /)          .tJ        I)        at          £: tJ 12()         /            I         :z_. 7.7 77 l.f:~                                     n                             n./J         ,?,O
        I-Astronomical            6       .J  "          9 JS"J l'U S).,9                       ✓          ,?        5' 1.-r,,1             tJ.0 S.5:/,        I            I         ,:I.-   7,7 1.r./,
                                                                                                                                                                                              7,7                               ~           I            3 ;s;,- 71 f2.3./
        2•Aircratt              ,,2               I     J //.~ 5:r /7,7                          I         0          I 1/./ t?,0 1//./                       J         0             3 ;23/ t).t) ,23/                        J            ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ;- ./2.3.I /§':-'f ,JB:S
        3-LiehtPhenom.            /           ,t)       I ."9 t?.t:J r.,                        LJ        0           t? 411 ao .a,                           p         ,0            0 1/J.,? J?.t? /?,L)                     ...              J        I "?" 7.7 Z'/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,.,
I   4•8irds
    5-Clouds. Oust, etc.
        6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
                                e;
                                 /')

                                 I
                                          I
                                          l!J

                                          0
                                                         I ,/J./J

                                                        I r,I.J nn S:'f
                                                                           -~ 5";9
                                                        t? /7./J /J.v ,:J,t:J
                                                                                               ,:,

                                                                                               A
                                                                                                ,t)
                                                                                                           I

                                                                                                          ""
                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                      t?
                                                                                                                      CJ
                                                                                                                                /)I,
                                                                                                                                /JI.
                                                                                                                                           //,/ //,1
                                                                                                                                        tJ.P
                                                                                                                                NJ t'.O tJ.t
                                                                                                                                            /)_I)
                                                                                                                                                              ,tJ
                                                                                                                                                              /j

                                                                                                                                                              .1
                                                                                                                                                                        I'}



                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                      ,t} l'J?.o
                                                                                                                                                                                       / In. t>
                                                                                                                                                                                      3 .231 ,,,~ )J,J
                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                        7,7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7,?       L)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ()           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            "" t? ,,, ,, "'·
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /,? 1,.,.,,


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -'-!"     /J,LJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /J.CJ tJ.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /l/l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       o.o
        7-P,ycllolO&iCII                                 /? /J.l /)/) IJ.0                                           0          t()        tJ.P      I)~                               I 7.7 /J. /) 7,7                                                  I 7.7 n.n '7.'7
                                 "                                                                                                                              I                                                               I
                                          0                                                     /}        0                                                             0                                                                      d


I       II-Unknown
        9-011111
                                ,;z.
                                 0
                                          0
                                          0
                                                        .z_. ii.¥ /J.L) //,7
                                                         t7 ,2t) t?.O /J.O
                                                                                               :l.
                                                                                                L)
                                                                                                          CJ
                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                     .)... ~2
                                                                                                                     t?         t?J
                                                                                                                                           t).() 1~1'.:2
                                                                                                                                            t?,() tU
                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                              Li
                                                                                                                                                                        ~

                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                       I 7,7 I,?. CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                      ,,, /J.I?         ,1/1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '7,1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     t;()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               s ·"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3 I~ -:i,/ ,'2.t) -:JJ./
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         L/     O.t:::? o.t:J          I).~


            Total             /;L             S- I? 17,U :ZVI· JtJt)                            1          I        e; Yf.1 J/./ ///. //7                               3 /.3 7/.9 ~I )/)0,                                   'I           /f-          I.! t?.~ 31?.1 Jt?a

I
    I




                               J;/ S',,c-, 0 ,,~c - S-- M1#0TF.1                                         6-3:1 /l✓1,               A/P,,-,e-S                         /Jyp',;,          ..J'f? ,,W,,,111t1TE'>                /7v17.,4-r,,,,,                   ""'T      S'T/ITPP

I            Evaluation
        0-Balloon
                                     Number


                                      I       0
                                                           Pl!t'Cent


                                                         I 3.3 /) CJ
                                                                                   Number


                                                                                      D
                                                                                                         PerC"1t
                             Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total ~ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                 t      '$ ;r,; t!I )/1;3 4
                                                                                                           2
                                                                                                                                 Nuntier               Percent


                                                                                                                                                                            ~
                                                                                                                                                                               Number               PerCmt

                                                                                                                                                                                        7 2-. j l?t )fl,/       d                              J          ;/ li/;f           7,1/- ~.,I.
        I-Astronomical               I        I         2..
                                                   3.3 3, 3 t.6                                 .s-     'l /.>..2. ?.I 1;24,3 ,fl
                                                                                                               ~                                                            :2        ..2-.    t?J. I/.! 1//,8' 4--                         !            7 1//.5' //,/ 11-S.-'7

I       2-AircraH
        Hi&htPhonom.
        4-Birds
                                  'l
                                  I
                                  /)
                                          .l I , 7"13 li? fP.t?
                                          0
                                          0
                                              I 3.J /J. 0 ?3
                                              /) /J.,, ao t7. 0
                                                                                                4 :z.. 6 12./ ,{./ IV- I
                                                                                                ~      .1- £.I ~t) ii ~
                                                                                                           "
                                                                                                a 0 tJ L?.O /?,O 10.a /J
                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                I     ,,2
                                                                                                                                                                                      ~
                                                                                                                                                                                      t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                f:'l .F.? //,8
                                                                                                                                                                                              r?,.., /,/ /? ao
                                                                                                                                                                                              ~t)       cJ.O /J.C.             b
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          • (J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               e,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         / J.? /J.t:J :j7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I 3.7 tJ.t:J 17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,1 0.0 t:J.O                 l?.O
        S-Clouds,Dus~et~          h                     t? ,, /) 11.0 ,?.0                      0                    C'        ,.,,.., /). 0 IJ'J. I?                                 t7 /J,t}                       n,                                  p                             c?.o
                                          " .3 /~/) 0.0 /O.t) I                                           /)
                                                                                                                                                               " " ? II.% ao J/.i 4                     /J,,,;                 0                                &/J at?

I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (1
        S-lnsuffic.lnfo.              l   0                                                               l!J        I         J,tJ t).t:J           J:I)     .:2.      0                                                                  0            ,4 1141.S'         ....,,.,    /1/,f
        l•Psycholo1ical          LJ       d  t? ,,.      ~6 ,P       /)    /2 0                            I)        ~         ~,,., 0.0 t:?. 0               0         d             /?      t:J.t:.   c}.t) 0.CJ            L)           0             JP       atJ /l/?              ()./,

                                 ,.,x                                                          .r
                                                        ( 1~7 ,.,,.., j..t.')                                       ..) 1.r:.2 ,-,,0 E,).                                             3
                                                                                                                                                                        "I I IU 5:'l S.9 I ,, I J,7
        II-Unknown                        ,0                                                              ,0                                                  1                                         17, tJ   /7,/,        7            0             7      ~£9 /20                ,:2.$:9
        9-0l!ler                                        t? 1ao t).t) tJ.o                      ,.1....     I             ~     £.I :1t?              u                                                                                                                                  J.7
I
                                          l!J                                                                                                                 ,:?                             rin                                                                          /1 n



            Tot•             .),/             f 136 17t?ti JM !/l)t) .£S                                  f' JJ 75:K j.il,.2 ltJC. /IJ                                      7 17 fl.'/ 1/1,2.. JP/). .2.,Z.                                ~           :21 3'/£ /f:.5' /00.


I                              ..FS.EcPNP.<
                                      Number
                                                              >J:>

                                                            Per Cent
                                                                       /   F,r
                                                                                  rtJe

                                                                                    Number
                                                                                                ,w,RArN1A/
                                                                                                         ,,-/t) $$Ca,vn~
                                                                                                          Per Cent
                                                                                                                                   ,.,,,
                                                                                                                                  Nullmer
                                                                                                                                              s1~_,,,r,A/ ✓
                                                                                                                                                          -:




                                                                                                                                                        Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                    AdJ,C/175

                                                                                                                                                                      //-3/,J SP-CPA/.t75
                                                                                                                                                                                Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,.,,,.           ?--ue,e..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ~/-tf'tJ S$CM'0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,1/1     ,,..,~..s

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Perc«it
             Evaluation       Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu                                                                  Total Certain Doubtful Total


I       ~Balloon
        1-Astronomical
        2·Aircraft
                                  ,p
                                  9
                                  ,I,
                                               ~



                                               I
                                                         t? tJ.O t),,:J &.t:J
                                              t /'> 2-9,tJ /9,)) 1-1!.~
                                                        ~ /7~ %,:Z. I!./                        p
                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                4-
                                                                                                           :l
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                               (7
                                                                                                                       I'l,3 /{I, (3
                                                                                                                       2-'?J ,1tJ l-3'.J.3
                                                                                                                      ,tf
                                                                                                                     ~ O.D 11.7 /£7
                                                                                                                                                                /
                                                                                                                                                               :J
                                                                                                                                                               ,{
                                                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                      3        71 111;3 J,/,Jf
                                                                                                                                                                                      ~ /#.i /J.O
                                                                                                                                                                                      /f- :)./,I, 7,/ J.8:S .:z.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /If;~      41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I               I ,:2... 7,7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I Cl,/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         r IS:-lf V,/ 15:5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             77 /5:11-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7.7 J,7

                                                        ;J t).t:) /J./J             ,.,.,,                           I 17./J         t. ":? u                                           I    7./ ,.,_t:J 7./ /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ",, I? /.J.tJ
        3-Li&ht Phonom.           &                                                                         I                                                  I                                                                                                          /) /1


I
                                                                                                /}                                                                      0                                                                                                               ~A

        .. Birds                          I   "          I tJ.O -:f? .J.2 I)                               0          t? JJ;;               t?,()    t?.O      ;?               I      I t::?tJ 7/ 7.J a                                       0          ~ /J.0 I?.£) tJ.o
        5-Cloud~ Dus~ etc        "
                                 I)           I          I an 3.~ 3,:Z. p                                         tl.CJ t?.O ao
                                                                                                           " ..z /6.7 ,?                                       ;?           ()        0 t?,/?            ,.,_,., n,-,
                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,,,,,, ao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ~                         /) ,,_n ,::;. /1 n,t:J
                                                         1 f-7 ao 't,7 :I...                                            /J.() II.'                                                    t? .,,,,
        6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
        I-Psychological
                                 1
                                              " "I) /J.t:J                          /J, /)      ~
                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                     I? tJ,t
                                                                                                                                   ,:,
                                                                                                                                            a~ tJ.t           ,:,
                                                                                                                                                                        CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                       I          7,/ 'T, I                    ,:,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  p            0          ,t? a.o /),/) 0. l)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          t? tJ.t) 0.0 (J /)

I
                                  ,')     0                                /J.O                           CJ                                                            I                     /JI?                                             0
        II-Unknown                6           0          i /?.If t?,tJ /'/.ti                   /          0          I ({.j                1()       'l..3   ::)                     ;z_. ltf.1 0.0 Jlf,3                     4-              0         µ 3af /l 0 .?RS
        9-0ther                           ,,            t?     ,?.I? /J.L) l.tlo                I                     I !"3                 t?.P      1J                "             tJ lao ao O.o                             I                         I 7,1 a. tJ 'l7
                                 t>
                                                                                                              "                                               d        0                                                                        ,:J


                             ,,J..-2...               .11      7/,/, .t..'U IJOt!               'I .3                        75:t) ,:;...s:p ld't?                     _j            /,/ It~ J5;7 Jl)P.                        J7          ...r 12 16Lf 35'.S- ;J)a
I
            Total                             CJ                                                                    l;l..                                     '1



                             f;/<::',,-c..th\/175- SM!" /Tr~                                         6-3tJ ;v, 'Alt.lTE'i                                            011£1< ~ 1M. ,n,r;,;                                     /7, ~                    ,/JAi .#tJT l'TAr;,r,

I            Evaluation
                                      ll>mber               PerC01t                   Number                PerCeot                   Nu-                   Per Cent                Number                Percent
                              Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total (.;ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total f,;ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                      s /tJ.~ t.9 17:J... I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,,., ,.~
        0-Balloon                    I    .:z            .,
                                                        3 .J.I 7,/ /tJ.7 3 :i.                                                                                              0           I /,.2,j         ,?.I) 1,:2;$"          .1                 I       ? L,3            J. /         I.J.4
        l•Astionomical               I        I                  36  J.I, 1...1.                .r            J       6 /7,). 3/J ,ti.I .l                                  ,:,       3 13'7,5 tJ.t? 17,.S-                     t.             .2.        S' II.I                      1£/
I       2·Aircrlft
        3-Liil't Ph..,..
                                 4
                                  ~
                                              4-
                                                  I
                                                         ff' /If;? 111-,J -?f{,I,
                                                         I (),t ?.t g,,
                                                         t)          P.tJ a" ~d
                                                                                               4-
                                                                                                §
                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                           4-
                                                                                                              ()
                                                                                                                       8' !J'S J:J,! 1'11'7~ .2
                                                                                                                      I 34 tJP 3.4
                                                                                                                      t? /J.tJ tM M ()
                                                                                                                                                              ,,            ,:,
                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                      2 ,2.5;~ tJ.tJ .2..~
                                                                                                                                                                                      C)   /){, l).tJ at-
                                                                                                                                                                                      tJ t).0 a 1/.IJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               _, .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <J'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          t>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  An
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4,1 .ZS-:v
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            t?.,:,       M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tJ;;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     o.o " ,,
        4-Birds                   t)          ()                                                              e,                                                            0                                                                  (1                 ,?_,,    IJ. 0
        5-Clouds, Dus~ et~                    0          tJ          tJ.t tJ.() l.tJ            t;
                                                                                                          ,, I ?.If   t) (),0 tJ.tJ P.t                                               C tJ.() 00                                t!)                      /l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  "·"                   IJ,t}

I
                                                                                                          (;1
                                  /}

                                                                                      J..t                                                           :u        "            0
                                                                                                                                                                                      ;J /)_() 00 JJ.O                            I.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CJ.0




        -
        6-lnsuffl~ Info.                  I)             I ?,J              /J./)                I                                         110                tJ                                                                                          6 Ill                 /,1.(
        7-P,ycllolo~c:al        ..2
                                     J

                                              I          .1 7,/             J,t lt?.7          L1         .0          ,t7 at               1),/)      .atJ     /
                                                                                                                                                                            "
                                                                                                                                                                            0         I /..2S 1# l/.:2.5                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0             I .5./           "·"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           P.t> 3./
        II-Unknown             J/)                     //) 1'.0 tJ.tJ 3.5:7                      7         (J         7 2LJ,                /J.tJ 2JJ           /           0         I /:Z.S 11./J 112.5                       _r"        ~             .> If.I. t:J.o IS:!,
              .                               "         t? /J,tJ ~o t'.O                                              I                    311-       .v,      ,::;                   t)       ,J.j      /J.tJ t)o             ,,,                        I       P.o                    '11./

I
                                 /J       0                                                     ;?         J                     /)/                                    (;1                                                                 I                                   -l I


            Total              /9         9           .:1.1    ,"7,9       ~, 1100. :Z...J                lf !l.'i /,2.I/ l~~t 100.                           if        0            .i' /P/),fi ,17,t! /t'e?, ~('                             1        ;, 1.f,J 2/_tl lt't?.


I                                                                                                                                      231

I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                ~.S;,u,vt,r
                                        Number
                                                          C)R

                                                          Per Cent
                                                                   ,:,,=,e_
                                                                  ,/;.~-~
                                                                                 -               .;


                                                                                               Number
                                                                                                            ,c;,,e,
                                                                                                h-/t? S,!."COA't7.S
                                                                                                                          A~~/) A~/JJI/




                                                                                                                     Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                 ,c


                                                                                                                                              Number
                                                                                                                                                            <C/6#7'//1/6
                                                                                                                                                            //- Slt? JE"CtJ///t75
                                                                                                                                                                    Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                              /JA,£


                                                                                                                                                                                            Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                               /J.iJEt!.r
                                                                                                                                                                                                       _j'/-CtJ Sce1J11os
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
          E¥11uabon         Certain Doubtful Total Certarn Doubtful Total              ert.ain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total i;ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
    0-Balloon                   J         s         t /J. fl      I .c/ 2.Z              3            .If      7 2.2. JJ.9 5/ ,'/-                             t       If 2.t? 2. 9 /1,'9              'i  I/ ~ 5:6 /,,.fl /2.4
ii-Astronomical              !.'fl:. /3i .J-7/r SU' $ff WI Jf-3                                  ;Lt         /,9 5/.t /9,/ l<n.7 ,t/-6                        /S      6/ 22.~ " f 2f.7                1,    ? 2.3 '1.S' 5:tJ Nl:i
    2-Aircrlft                .20 It 36 ,;:Q 4.? ,;_ 7 /'I                                        13 1 ~ ///.! 9.6 '/9. 9 :Lf '2.F                                    ,,z l.?.1 /{1 27~               :JO i t ti'! /,f.t, /IZ 2?.%
    3-Ligl\t Phenom.
    4-Birds
    5-Clouds, Dust, etc.
    6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
                                 1
                                tJ
                                 /
                              / ,2...
                                             t)
                                             t)I}~/}
                                            I 2. tU
                                                    2

                                           t? /? .?,:l.
                                                          a,;-    /}/)
                                                                  ,.,,., /J /)
                                                                  ;J !
                                                                  /) /J
                                                                              ,?..e;


                                                                              /JI,
                                                                              ~2,
                                                                                          I
                                                                                          IJ
                                                                                          IJ
                                                                                          7
                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                   I 2_ tl.1 1J-1 II/
                                                                                                   t)  0 tJ.{) ,11) /l/J tJ 0
                                                                                                                             I  I

                                                                                                       0 l'J.c:J /)_ /, atJ /) 2 fl
                                                                                                       7 5/ /J.tl !; I /~ CJ /II- 1..t /J tJ
                                                                                                                                               I I) ;.t?
                                                                                                                                                           tJ
                                                                                                                                                           /)
                                                                                                                                                          /)
                                                                                                                                                          JI?
                                                                                                                                                                       ,z_ tl.5 0.5 /.IJ
                                                                                                                                                                        CJ 11 /J /1/1 /J /J
                                                                                                                                                                            /),?


                                                                                                                                                                                            u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 L)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          tJ    /J (J

                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,t) /2tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 tJ /.2- 75 6_4 ~5"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /J/J

                                                                                                                                                                                                                          tJ /JI} ac ,1/,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /J/,1_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /Jt;J

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /J,/,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
    7-Psydloloaical
    8-Unknown
    !1-0tbe<
                             ~3
                                2

                                ('
                                           CJ      2... /25 atJ
                                          t? 7 ~ L.2 /J/) ,: z
                                          3 I/ 1'.2 /) !? .f zJ
                                                                              /JC
                                                                                       77
                                                                                         tJ

                                                                                         .2..
                                                                                                  () 0 ;J /} /,}_{J tJ.iJ   3    /    Jf 15 {Jg ,;l.lJ
                                                                                                   tJ 1,; /~Z /J /) /t. .t Lfll t? mt fl~ /) /J 215" j-;
                                                                                                  t)   2. I~ tJ. tJ 1.5'    /I-  11' /'J :?.o .J'. 9 5. 9 3
                                                                                                                                                           7                                                     t? .2, IZ t?/J /,t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  v .57 fl 1 ,a,:; .?/1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2.. 5 1.9 12, ~/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
         Total              1,2..t),? /13 370 55:j 1#'4// /{J(}.                       V- .tµ; /36 I..?£. j'f'_t/ //J/J /J/J.J i i 2,j5 rm2 291 la?.                                                /:Z-.2. 39 /6'/ '/s:! 2✓.2 /(,VJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
          Evaluation
    0-Balloon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
    I-Astronomical
    2·Aircraft
    3-Light Phenom.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
    6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
    7-Psychological
    8-UnknoMI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
    9-0ther


         Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                              5         )£j'/JA/£7}        /J,Q
                                                                  /J,=.e
                                                                   /    F3f
                                                                                         ,,
                                                                                 .,..,, :U,r"/A/6            ,-,,,,A_


                                                                                                 IL? Sr✓-'/J.un,;
                                                                                                                          /)//R_ A-r- -/IA/      >c       S/G#7"""//Y6
                                                                                                                                                      I I .JtJ ,5            - .,, --
                                                                                                                                                                                            -r",.          ,..,,_,./£(3."TS
                                                                                                                                                                                                           .7/ {',t)' "EC't?IVP.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
I Evaluation                         Number                Per Cent                Number                                      PerCeat                 Nuntier               Per Cent                Nllmber              PerCml

    0-Balloon
    I-Astronomical
    2-Aircraft
                             Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total

                                 iJ
                                 2-.
                                  I
                                          -4
                                          .,-
                                             /J     C o.o
                                                    £ fr If.CJ ff5
                                                                  /J./}


                                                    6 4./ :'lf.f{ ti.I.
                                                                              ///J       ,'J
                                                                                         CJ
                                                                                         d-
                                                                                                    .2-
                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                       t?      0
                                                                                                               2
                                                                                                                r
                                                                                                                        Certain Doobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                         /J/1

                                                                                                                        I?/)
                                                                                                                                 /J./1 ,,, /J
                                                                                                                              1..-,.// /',_',,
                                                                                                                        :,,,q 'f.'/ ?fG
                                                                                                                                                      .£
                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                      '7
                                                                                                                                                               //
                                                                                                                                                               /)
                                                                                                                                                                  £ 1..9 /_?.f ttJ.7
                                                                                                                                                                  {) /JtJ tJ.O O.tJ
                                                                                                                                                              s- I.' 2,/1 11.t -f''!.J
                                                                                                                                                                                                       tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                       tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ...3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /JI   t?.L {)J,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  tJ.C !/./ JI.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /I- //. I 33'1 JI!/;!,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
    3-LightPhenom.
    4-Birds
    5-Clouds, Dus~ etc.
                                tJ
                                /)
                                0
                                          t)
                                          t)
                                             I      I /liJ ,h 1/Jt
                                                    C ,,,,., /}/) /J /}
                                                    0
                                                    2
                                                          /}/}    l{/J        l'J.IJ
                                                                                         C)
                                                                                         /}

                                                                                         0
                                                                                                     CJ
                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                      I}
                                                                                                               /J ,'JO /) /J /)/}
                                                                                                               0 t?.O 00 /J.(J
                                                                                                               I)       17/J    IJ t)    /J.t)
                                                                                                                                                      tJ
                                                                                                                                                      CJ
                                                                                                                                                      f)
                                                                                                                                                              C)
                                                                                                                                                              tJ
                                                                                                                                                              I)
                                                                                                                                                                  ~ /J./J 110 1/4'0
                                                                                                                                                                  /) /}/J / } / ] t).O
                                                                                                                                                                       ~    /}/)     t?.0 {J. IJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                      tJ I
                                                                                                                                                                                                      tJ 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                      /) 0                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I o.o II. I I I. I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,:J 0.0 {.,;{) O.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ().1  r:u; /1./)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
    6-lnsutfic.lnfo.            ?_        t?               f,e;   /'.l/J      v:<         I           0        I 17     0.0 1. 7                      ~       t?      ,Z    ;,_(}    /l,., /4. 9       I t?               I I/, I /J.() //,/
    I-Psychological
    &-Unknown                  6
                                (1        t?
                                          t)
                                                    tJ    {l;J tJ. I}
                                                   ;; 2U, ()IJ 1ft.
                                                                              -'?/J
                                                                                        .,
                                                                                         t?       (/
                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                               tJ  t?.O -"ll /J. I}
                                                                                                               {" fft; /Jt? ff£
                                                                                                                                                  ,fl
                                                                                                                                                      s
                                                                                                                                                              t?
                                                                                                                                                              ~
                                                                                                                                                                      ;2.... 1..9    0.(} &.f
                                                                                                                                                                      s rt_t. /JO 11.2. ..:L.. ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                       0 t?               ,t) IJ.0 ~/, 0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ;2.... ,t,ll ar, 27              I
    Cj..()ther                 t?         t?        /')    /J/1   tl. 0 10.0              tJ      0            ;) tl.t? 0.0 11/J                      I       I       ,:L .vi        f.L/ ?. i        I} //               t? tJ.t tJ.t /J./,
         Total                II         II) :;.J 15'"1'.f' 1/tt /(J(l.                IC?        5 /3 1t 9 HI 1a:> 19 I/J .2...'l ?5. 6 .J/5' /()CJ. /I-- .F f                                                                 1/4.4 5"5:S /t)t?.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
          Evaluation
    0-Balloon
                             6/ .S1=co/l/P5-F /r111VvTE5
                                     ttimbef               Per Cent
                             Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                  77 /,ii- /(5 If~ i?t!                                   6
                                                                                                ,5-3/) /1/;A///TE.5
                                                                                              Number
                                                                                       ertain Ooubtfut Total Certain Doubtful Total

                                                                                                      £
                                                                                                                    Percent


                                                                                                             /.7 /J.J /.J..J 2t..t                    3
                                                                                                                                                          t?v~R 3t? M,,y,;;rer
                                                                                                                                                        Number
                                                                                                                                                 ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                  I   q l.>.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                              Percent


                                                                                                                                                                                      .0 7/Jj
                                                                                                                                                                                                      01./oAT/tPAI
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Number


                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,If
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                #tl.r cJ77fT.£7J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Percent

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ? 5'",1.. q_ 9 9. I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ::1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          r
    I-Astronomical
    2-Aircraft
    Higt,tPhenom.
    4--Birds
                               I

                               0 0
                                  tJ    I It /J/) ;.t
                              /? II Lr 21.f 1&:tJ 1/5:f

                               CJ 0
                                                    v
                                           1M IJ.O /{CJ
                                        /; l?t? 12.t? tJCJ
                                                                                         2. 1


                                                                                         CJ /}
                                                                                               p ,/~ h·{, //. (J
                                                                                         £ i' /If /.1.J /1. f .JI.I
                                                                                         3 t) 3 £ t tJ. t) ti.
                                                                                               0 /J.tJ ll. (J /J. {)
                                                                                                                                                      J
                                                                                                                                                      /,L
                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                      ;;
                                                                                                                                                               0 I l;()
                                                                                                                                                               ,t It? :2.PO .3tJ.0 ~()./,
                                                                                                                                                               t)
                                                                                                                                                               ,t)
                                                                                                                                                                    0 rJ.O t?.P tJ.O
                                                                                                                                                                       I)    IJ.t
                                                                                                                                                                                      tJ.O S:()


                                                                                                                                                                                      ti)     ~()
                                                                                                                                                                                                      /
                                                                                                                                                                                                      /?
                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                       /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,q     1. f' J'.9 //.?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ~ /7 It '1 S..2.., :ZJ..J

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t? I / .J /} /} I.J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0 0 ,1/J JJ/1 0./J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                             ao s:c. S:t?
    S-.Clouds, Oust, etc.
    6-lnsuffic. mti.
    I-Psychological
    1-Untmown
                                ~
                                 /
                              II 0
                                  I t?
                                        /l
                                        I
                                                    I
                                                   2. ??
                                                   ;;_ /&,
                                                          //.,    tlO /.t
                                                                   tJ.o .?..!
                                                                  /I,
                                                  // ;go tl.0 !1i'.tl
                                                                              12.
                                                                                         0 t?
                                                                                         c2 CJ
                                                                                         t) t)
                                                                                         h ()
                                                                                               0 0.0 o.o /Jtl
                                                                                                ? 1/1;' tl. t} 1,/41
                                                                                                               {)        t?.t? 0.0
                                                                                                                £ /J..f l,){J /f.3
                                                                                                                                         {? /}
                                                                                                                                                      t)



                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                       ?
                                                                                                                                                      I/
                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                              /J
                                                                                                                                                              I/
                                                                                                                                                              I)
                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                       7 !U
                                                                                                                                                                       t?
                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                             t1.{,
                                                                                                                                                                            .f':t?
                                                                                                                                                                                      t./1 //).t,
                                                                                                                                                                                      ~I, o.i
                                                                                                                                                                                      /J.I) £() ?f
                                                                                                                                                                                                       7
                                                                                                                                                                                                       I,
                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  tJ      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7 9./
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /..f    12~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CJ.a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   tJ /J.IJ /,i_tJ /J. ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                               -~ :tt .'L,.,I t?.t? fl.JI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ig
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  11      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                       s
i
    !l-0....


        Total
                               .2._ tJ


                            1/,2... /Cf
                                                   ,J     ..1f    t?t?

                                                  b/ 1,/l'I ff.I ;t?IJ
                                                                              ff

                                                                                       ~f
                                                                                           3,!)                .:3 U, ao If../,
                                                                                                 17 4-S IL1.l ?'f.~ //}()_ l.2-
                                                                                                                                                      I       t?       I    §.t)

                                                                                                                                                              ;? 1../J bl./J ¢,t
                                                                                                                                                                                      P.P J,t)                    ?

                                                                                                                                                                                            wa 6S /2_ /'} ll?'L.( 15":t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7     /,,,5


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.t       9. I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /(}~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                232
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
I
I
                             V/QLE ,£:lt21                           E///11,UA'f/.tlttl                pr       /?ti-            .S(6lfT//VGs       E??-< AU- Ve,1.1!5         di( tfl/lH-6'E.e                                         c?r ?1A'✓4i'/!rf


I            Evaluation
                                     -5"'SECO#O.S 01> USS
                                         Number
                                                                      lE",~


                                                               Per Cent
                                 Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                   .<',I    U'Y'//11'~           e/?d.

                                                                                                  £-/,:) .5'.EC",VPS
                                                                                                  Number                Percent
                                                                                                                                            ,o,el ??~ S/6#,,.1/.'/VG
                                                                                                                                  ,,,,,,~.r✓a




                                                                                           ertain Doubtful Tolal Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                     1,'11'£EE    rt.cJ
                                                                                                                                                                  //-)'/) S ,f.Cl)~m
                                                                                                                                                                 Number
                                                                                                                                                                                          -r.;e;al

                                                                                                                                                                                       Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .3/-/t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,.,.., ,.E"t!-r.:s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    )J;Ct)/1117("
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                          ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tot~



I                                                                                                                                                            t                 ..2 tJtJ
     0-S.lloon                         [,    2 L /)./,) I. I I../                                0        0          () ii},,?        /J./J /J,O                      ~                       11 ?:1            C.      t)         t) /J,O             ~/J       Cl.Cl
         I-Astronomical                3     t? 3 ?. I IJ.CJ 9./                                 I        ()         I ,,__,; /4(7 t..1       I /J/J .7.k .J.t
                                                                                                                                                             ()       I                                        I,       I          I     /J./7          ,;-9     5:,
     2-Aircraft                      £       JI /tJ 1~1. 1.2. I i'/J3                            5'      t'      5 J'J'.1 tJ.CI .f?.3 It? 3 13 H5 11.5 15'ao                                                   7       I          1 47- .t .,.9 ¢7-1
     3-liiht Phenom.                 0        I      I t?tJ _f'IJ Jt)                            tJ      3       .3 Iti.a 1U). tJ :k).C, 0 I I tJ.o t.£ 3.&                                                    tJ       /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,,.,, 59
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I t.J.t:J s.9 5.9

I    4·Birds
     S-Clouds, Dus~ et~
     6-lnsuHic. lnrti.
                                     t
                                     2
                                       7     .ti
                                             /)
                                             /)
                                                     6 /../ 12./ l.t:2.
                                                     () /J.O tJ.tl Cl. t:l
                                                    ~ 1../ tUJ 1../
                                                                                                 ;;
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                  I /J" /..'1 tJ..1 / t)
                                                                                                                 t) 120 /,J_,:l tJ.,:;
                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                         ~ t>
                                                                                                                           t. -f ?7.o ;,,7
                                                                                                                                              I .U /J/J ~-!
                                                                                                                                              ~ /JtJ /J.t? I/J./J
                                                                                                                                                             0       0         l) O.t) t:J.I) 11?.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                               /
                                                                                                                                                                                                               /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                               t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .:?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t:?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /J.,:J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         atJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              //. f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /J. tJ at:?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       l'?/J OIJ
                                                                                                 t,       0                                                          I         I ,?/J .J.f f.,f                                   tJ eJ_,:J
     7-Psydlolo1ical                 I}      0      t? f1/J 0.0 17. tJ                                            {) tJ.r? /J. t} tJ.tJ                     t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                               .,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                /)     t)                              /J /J     t!ltJ

I    &-UniuN>lffl
     9-Qthe,
                                     7
                                     ?
                                             ()
                                             0
                                                    7121.2 tJ.O 211.
                                                    2. /..; 12 0 I../
                                                                                             If
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                          t)
                                                                                                          !)
                                                                                                                 );- 141.,i tJ.tJ 1,.1
                                                                                                                  (} 1ic. /J,/J /J.CI
                                                                                                                                                            7
                                                                                                                                                            ()
                                                                                                                                                                     t?
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                               7 ?L..9 t1/J :2..?
                                                                                                                                                                               tJ    /],.,   ,1;?    /?.l:J    I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       r)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  s     194' at? 29.4'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,::;; IJ.0 t'?.tl (1.,:J
            Total                 2-2        II    '3J U.1 f?_J' /Pt?.                      I/           .If IF '1.1.! /Jl..1 /&12                        If          1 /Lo //U .tas l,1111 13 II 17 11¼5' U.£ /t?t>.
I
                                  6/ 1EC"Moc - f              /1,f/A✓nrE<:                            6 3,:7              ,7
                                                                                                                                       "'~                        {} i/.&".0    2 tJ M,Amr£,                  011>i'dr//J,'/             A/Ar           S7,A7Tn


I             Evaluation
         II-Balloon                      I
                                          Number


                                             3
                                                                Per Cent


                                                  /f I.~ ,It /. q
                                                                                        Number
                                  Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                 .)       3
                                                                                                              PerC01t

                                                                                                                     6 «1             /,lg lit
                                                                                                                                                                 Number                Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                                                                          ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu
                                                                                                                                                             6           !)     6 /2.1 ,1t) lt.f                s       t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .J 5.5 t?.t? 5.J'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Per Cent



         1-Astsonomical                t)     '7  .2- O.o ?.? .?2.                               ?        0          0     /J.CI ,,_,,,
                                                                                                                            /J_O                            2.           _5-    7 .t/.g ,/J_t, //If             I      3          Jf /./                ?. .2,   4:3'

I        2·Aircraft
         J.liiht Phenom.
         4-Birds
                                    /:2..


                                     0
                                       I
                                             Jo .2.2. IU II.. I p;_,;
                                             ?
                                             I}
                                                  3 II. .:t.J, .t/.f
                                                    0       /) /)     /J,d ~I?
                                                                                                 '{
                                                                                                 .2
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                         /S'
                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                 ?:? li.9 2,/.J, .11.I
                                                                                                                 /f- .?2, f t
                                                                                                                     I      /J.17     I.I,
                                                                                                                                                t,..1,1
                                                                                                                                                1.t,
                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                             /)
                                                                                                                                                            /J       0
                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                      /J
                                                                                                                                                                                'l_ ~-1
                                                                                                                                                                                I} IJ I)
                                                                                                                                                                                0 /JtJ
                                                                                                                                                                                              ~-1 4,2,
                                                                                                                                                                                             120 /J.O
                                                                                                                                                                                             t?/J tJ. t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                              I ff
                                                                                                                                                                                                               /
                                                                                                                                                                                                               ?       /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        t/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ?2. 1:1_t;

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I      /./
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2./
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,( z. :U./
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       t?. t) /.I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /.I      .i'. 2.
     S-C1ouds, Dus~ etc.             t}      t?     /') 12/J           J?.a                      {)       t)     t')       17,I!)     /] /)     t).t)       6        !)         0 ,2/J         0 tJ ~ /J/J /) /J /J CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                             /} I) l!J./J


I
                                                                                /J '"
         6-lnsuffic.lnfo.              7     t? 7 1/.J                 ,0./J Ill. {(         /Cl          (J    /IJ 11..I /J.d /1..I                        2        /J  2.. ¢. 2. ;J.{) z/2, .M t? ~ 2(./ /.l,O .2/.I
         I-Psychological             £1       I   I CUJ                l.t,     /,t,             0       0        0 /J.IJ ,7_ IJ /) CJ                       !)       I   I ,J,? ?./ .2.I I / )._ /. I I.I :Z.2.
     8-UnknOMI                     ,t../     0 12--/ .lf.9            11.0 1.5.! q          /5"         0 IS- 14..t tJ./J ?</t, 1.                                   p 2..~ 55'.t aCJ 5.?.t. VI /J :IJ_/, 25"..! ;Jo ?5.J'

.1                                                                                                      2. 3 /,/4 I,?. dR iL
     9-0ther                         _7      0   "7 ?.2.               /J,/J    12-              I                                                                   ~         J.1-, g:5 !?CJ i'.5 /ti- t)                       /If- /.11.'f O.CJ IN'.7

     I      Total                 1#1- / ( 6'2 111.t' 1'1.p '11111. ,3'/ .2-3 l".2. ~j_j _ff-f/ ltJt? I,//,?                                                          7 II-? %'5: I ;./t; /tJO. 15 .f                  9 f.r (?,1,:' ~5 IPtl.
                                 7711/t.E                                E)(AU?fOt2111                         ?Pr                           S"/MZ:uVGS:                  E<M         ALL       {/EA£S             dV           A/t/MA'U             ,?,,: afJE<?rs'

I
                                                                                                                           ,£LL
                                                                        ~~                 ft'        ?'lb(.         ,C/'),1                                  tJ.C .'>/6 H ,-,,,,G                  EL..E '£IP        ,,,,        M/JPE                /1d/Eers

                                       ~ 5ECLW£'< t?R L£".H                                       o~-/,:;?           )~ L:'✓tJ/ll'P<                              //-3£1         '-- J!:C,i;11/?,                    /h(/J              "n, ~ Al/7,S
                                          Number                Per Cent                Number              • Percent                 Number                Per Cent                Number                                                    Per Cent
              Evaluation          Certain Doubtful Tolal Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu                                      Total Certain Doubtful Total


I        II-Balloon
         !•Astronomical
         2-Aircraft
                                     tJ
                                     t?
                                       I
                                              0
                                              I
                                             .7
                                                     ,0 .C.t ti tJ.O
                                                      I di? IM /CJ,/.,
                                                      f /Pv 'Mt) J;J.t
                                                                                                 I/
                                                                                                 I)
                                                                                                 I IJ
                                                                                                          /
                                                                                                         ;J
                                                                                                                      I tJ.L 3J.~ J'..13
                                                                                                                     t> b,I /)/. ao
                                                                                                                     I l33,3 t}.O 33,3
                                                                                                                                                             {)
                                                                                                                                                             ,!}
                                                                                                                                                             C)      0
                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                       t?       0 ;?tJ /?11
                                                                                                                                                                                I C.11 33.3 33,3
                                                                                                                                                                                t?    1).0 0/J t).C,
                                                                                                                                                                                                       1)£
                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                /,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ~


                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I /.,U
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  {)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  {)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,j,/,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           tM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         tJ.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         tJ.t) t?v
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    fl.t,


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /1.{I 1,2,5
         3-Li!lhlPh.-.m.             t)      £1      !)  /)() /).0 !111                          C t)                t) /J.0 ~C, t?.t                       tJ       0          IJ t?.()     (),tJ    IJ.O     ,1      I)       M {)                     atJ tJ.tJ.

I        4-Birds
         5-Clouds., Dust, etc.
         6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
                                       CJ IJ
                                       t)
                                      :?
                                             C?
                                             0
                                                    /}
                                                    0 l).i
                                                    3 30. t
                                                             ft         t?t)
                                                                        (?_()
                                                                        0.C 3tJ.()
                                                                                  (}.t
                                                                                 ()(,
                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                 v
                                                                                                 ?
                                                                                                          t)
                                                                                                         ,:;?
                                                                                                         ,!}
                                                                                                                     I 1~3 0,[, 33.
                                                                                                                     t)
                                                                                                                 0 tJ.O /JO
                                                                                                                               /)(.
                                                                                                                                          I 0.0 3'33 33.3 LI--
                                                                                                                                            IJ,/, tJ.11 tJ.O (/ C?
                                                                                                                                        t}.I)   t!t)
                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                             .c 0
                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                   0 /), t
                                                                                                                                    v 0 t) ;J./, Jt) 0.t tJ tJ 0 ()_ I
                                                                                                                                                11,
                                                                                                                                                                               !)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       t:) /f- QJ,;)                    /J,/) ~NJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ;J.j t?.£
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         JJ()  /),j
         I-Psychological            C?       .c      tJ o.t             /J.()    t}.t            t)     t)       IJ c),/) (Ji (),11 {} I I IJ.() JJ.~ 33,; t) tJ t) {?/)                                                                                 I)/) ,1.1.,

I        a.unknown
         9-0ther
                                    3
                                       tJ
                                             0
                                             tJ
                                                      , ?11.t
                                                     /)      C,t
                                                                        IJ.P 1/1.t
                                                                        a;;      ;Jt,
                                                                                             tJ
                                                                                              tJ
                                                                                                        t)
                                                                                                         v
                                                                                                                 0 (){) ~/1 IJ.(, () t7 0 0,0 O.D a() J' tJ 3 31,J'
                                                                                                                 ~  ar: tJt 11.t) I) tJ t) ac- O./J 0.0 I') tJ 0 at1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I{/',
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              575
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  tJ.;j

                                    7         1 /{) 'lrJ.11 3t)t} ltJf.l.                        -;      I       3' 6t.7 3.?.3 Wt?.                         0        5 3             tJ.o IM/J /tJtJ. 1                0         ,(     1/t!t:?t        ti. ;J /.?'A
I
            Total




                                     I.I 5..:-,~•-A<         !>'"" A•t/res                            ;,,. go            fa ;ll)vrc- s                             /J11J;R 5'CI M111111res                     l),1,e11ntJIII 11/tJr S:r/17ep

 I            Evaluation
         0-S.lloon
                                          Number


                                              0
                                                                PerCmt                  Number


                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                              Percent                 Number                Per Cent
                                  Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tolal certain Doubtful Tolal Certain Doubtful Total ~•rtain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tolal Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tota

                                       CJ           C tJ.t /t t111                                         t?        I /,ZS j},tJ 1.23                       ;;        ()       t)
                                                                                                                                                                                    Number


                                                                                                                                                                                       t?o l-0 /.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Per Cent


                                                                                                                                                                                                                u          t)      t)      ,?/) ,?_ /)           /}JJ
         I-Astronomical                t,     I       I     !?.£        tl/ cl,/                 0        I          I      iJ tJ. /,2,, ·;;,__,r            h        t)        6 IJAI) M 2.,1/,                I       0          I .t/5 /J/J ✓.:-
 I       2-Aircraft
         3-Light Phenom.
         4•Birds
                                       C,
                                       ()
                                       I
                                             2..
                                             /)
                                             0
                                                    ,:2._
                                                    0
                                                     I
                                                            tJ. () 1(.2 l/f....t.
                                                             tu t)./,
                                                            "I.I        tJ,/.
                                                                                  /1./.
                                                                                  <?.
                                                                                                 tJ ,!}
                                                                                                 ~

                                                                                                 /?
                                                                                                        (/
                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                     ~
                                                                                                                  I.U.Z
                                                                                                                     ?
                                                                                                                 0 11.t
                                                                                                                            M          /},{,     tJ.t
                                                                                                                                       ;J,() '1.,a
                                                                                                                                        11,      (),1
                                                                                                                                                             ;;

                                                                                                                                                            I)
                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                             I IJ
                                                                                                                                                                      ;J
                                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                                I 3.3
                                                                                                                                                                                ~ ~11
                                                                                                                                                                                      ~/,     3,3
                                                                                                                                                                                               a, 3,3
                                                                                                                                                                                               At tJ.11
                                                                                                                                                                                                       J,J      ;J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I      I /J /I LI,< 4.-,:;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IJ.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /)/1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        o.a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /J /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /)/)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,'l/?

         ~Clouds, Dust. etc.         /)      C'     (}       ti,/)      tJ /, /}.t               ~       /,)     0             /JI.     at tJtJ             ;J       /,)        0 M            cw tf.11. t              /}        t)      /);J          /J.£1 12/J

I        &-lnsuffic.tnro.
         7-Psycnolocicat
         I-Unknown                 #
                                    0
                                     ()
                                             r' 0
                                             I}
                                             0
                                                    0
                                                    ~ Ult
                                                             t) l
                                                             ().1,
                                                                        tJ.;, 11.t'.
                                                                        ().11 I)_()
                                                                        tJ.() 3t:J
                                                                                                  I tJ I 11.2, tJ.rJ /;z_, /? tJ
                                                                                                 ;; t? /J tJ.(, /JI. tJ.t I 0
                                                                                                 3 0   ..:f g'l,.[ '2P '17,5 ., I) ;?
                                                                                                                                                                                (}
                                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                                      /J.t
                                                                                                                                                                                      :J.3
                                                                                                                                                                               21! ff.7
                                                                                                                                                                                               t)j t)./)
                                                                                                                                                                                              tJI) 33
                                                                                                                                                                                              tJ,/) ttf.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                7 ,::?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ;t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       t}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /,J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ~7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ''.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           11.t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            lj_/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .l,l'tJ 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /J..-i

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .?Ix

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /J.O ./4.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   f./
         t.Olher                       ?      /)     ? 2?,~             IJIJ 77.<                ;? 0   0 "-(, /?I) N; 0 I                                                      I      to 3-i 3                f'      I/                  I?. I        ~t? 4./

I    i      Total                   '(;      1     I/ ,'7?" 1-? '7, 3 )/?~                   7            I      9' f/7,.5            as 11a 2.% ? J6 9.,?,.3 ;;','} /?'C,) l---1                                          I ,2_-7 'f:5'.5' ,:/5 /Ciel.


I                                                                                                                                     233


I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                    Number                Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
         EnluatiGo
    0-Ballaon
    l•Astrono■ical

    2•Aimaft
                                                                                    Doubtful Tolal CertJin Doul>llul Total


                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
    3-Li&f,tPh010m.
    4-Birds
    ~Clouds, Dus~ et~
    6-lnsuffi~ Info.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
    7-Psycllolo&ical


    9-0lher
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
       Total

                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
         Evaluation
    0-Ballaon
                             ~/ .>E•"1,</-"'S



                               ~
                                    Number


                                       I}     ?
                                                        f;  M /A,,,rc.
                                                         Per Cent
                           Certain OoUbtful Tolal Certain lloul>tfu I Tobi Certain 0o...... , Total Certain Ooubllul Total
                                                    fl, '?,., j'j'f            tJ
                                                                                  /4-P/J
                                                                                   Number


                                                                                         I
                                                                                                /1?/A/vTES



                                                                                                I    /1/J
                                                                                                           P,rCmt


                                                                                                             ff.J' .fJ'..5
                                                                                                                                     -
                                                                                                                                     t?.v.e-.e  J"O M//1;;,TGS
                                                                                                                                                          P,r Cent
                                                                                                                                                                            £lv.e'9r/c?/I/ A/tJr SrAreLJ
                                                                                                                                                                                  Nuober                 PerCmt
                                                                                                                             ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain lloubtfu Total r.ertain Dmlmul Total
                                                                                                                               ;:J      t.J          t1 ti.Cl     tJ.tJ /J./.      I    tJ        I   2.1 tJ.tJ ,2.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
    l•Asbolllllical
    2-Airmft
    l-Li&lltl'll0100.
    4-Birds
                              ?
                              I
                               /I




                              /J
                                      0
                                       /}
                                       tJ

                                      /}
                                              0 lot?
                                              ? J'.J'.S
                                              I     /~1
                                                             t? /}
                                                             /J, /I
                                                              /1,1
                                                                   J'!..f
                                                                   /~.1
                                                             /JO t1,t1
                                                                      /] /,   tJ
                                                                              tJ
                                                                               I
                                                                                      tJ
                                                                                      tJ
                                                                                      Cl
                                                                                               0
                                                                                              /J
                                                                                                     /J /J
                                                                                                    ,?,tJ
                                                                                                             0./1 lat1
                                                                                                              o.o tJ. (1
                                                                                              I 117,t) SJ'.f J'.D
                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                               11
                                                                                                                               Cl
                                                                                                                                        /J
                                                                                                                                        /J
                                                                                                                                        Cl
                                                                                                                                                 tJ tJ.tJ
                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                     /   J(.f


                                                                                                                                                         t?tl
                                                                                                                                                                  /J /2 f.f
                                                                                                                                                                 tJ./J /J.(1
                                                                                                                                                                 (J.(l .tJ.()
                                                                                                                                                                                  //
                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                  {)
                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                        J
                                                                                                                                                                                        /
                                                                                                                                                                                             1.t. l?a_7


                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                              .p'     ?."?'
                                                                                                                                                                                                      /J,{)
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,t.1 f-1.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                              '7,/ /tJ,R
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ?.1      ?,7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .,."¢
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                              0     J!J./)                    /J      /J       I)    /4/,    L1. /J tJ.t?     .f        /J               /J.,? 1?5.p
                                                                                                                                                     /' I?.£,:                    2,    0    2,       5.4 tl.17
    5-Clouds_ Dust. etc.
    6-lnsuHic. lnfa.
    I-Psychological
                              I}

                               I
                              /}
                                      0
                                       t)
                                      /J
                                              0
                                              I
                                             /J
                                                    17, /J   /1/l

                                                    16,1 /J.O vt1
                                                    /J.IJ / ) , . , ao
                                                                      17,/J



                                                             ,.,,., /1,r?
                                                                              /J
                                                                              0
                                                                              t)     0
                                                                                      tJ
                                                                                      Cl
                                                                                              t)
                                                                                              t)
                                                                                              (?
                                                                                                     tJ.o
                                                                                                    (J.(?
                                                                                                             /.J.t) tJ.,:7
                                                                                                             /J. t) tJ.tJ
                                                                                                 lt7.o ,/1_/, c?.12
                                                                                                                              Cl
                                                                                                                              5'.
                                                                                                                              /J       0
                                                                                                                                        /J
                                                                                                                                        /J
                                                                                                                                                 0 tl.tJ 0./J tJ. (1
                                                                                                                                                 ~ /6.J   l}.t) /6,J
                                                                                                                                                 0 Lao tJ.tJ (J.p
                                                                                                                                                                                  K
                                                                                                                                                                                   I

                                                                                                                                                                                  Cl
                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                        CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                              ff
                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                  I   '7. 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ?~/.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                      /J/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                              /7,/J   .£. ?'
                                                                                                                                                                                                              /7.t) tl/.t
                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,,_,, 'J   ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
lrUnknown                    /J       t)     t)     /J./)                     I       t)       I lff.~ t?,/J 1,,.3            5        /J        t, 1~7 tl.t) 1¥'/.7               t.   0    ? l,.1..,.z,     /7,t) 1/6.?
9-0ther


I      Tot~
                             /}



                             I,,
                                      /J


                                      t)
                                             /J


                                             /..
                                                    tJ.t) /) /J


                                                   1/~1 /J.O l/nn
                                                                      ao      tJ

                                                                              ~
                                                                                     Cl

                                                                                         I
                                                                                              0     tJ.,,    /7./J 117 /J


                                                                                               J l61C., n,.5 /Pa             ,?
                                                                                                                               /       /)



                                                                                                                                       CJ
                                                                                                                                                 I       J(f


                                                                                                                                              ;?, 1,,..,, I
                                                                                                                                                                  tJ.t? f..f


                                                                                                                                                                 /J, /} llt?ti.
                                                                                                                                                                                   I


                                                                                                                                                                                  JI
                                                                                                                                                                                        t1    I       2.1 /J.Cl .t. ~

                                                                                                                                                                                        6 .5'7 f?U /t.z /(1(?,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                        234
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
I
I
I         Evaluation


I   ,0-Balloon
     l·Astionomical
    2-Ai,craft
    3-Lighl Ph010m.


I   4·Birds


    6-lnsuffi~ ~~-
    7-Psydlolo~cal


I   9-0ther


        Tohl


I
                             '6/ 5'£M//I.C{ - ,;-- ""'M"~es                       ,: -.f'O           > ,111,,~£s                            /,JJ,',P,e                                       n,,., 14 .,-,,,,111 A,,,r <rAT,1;LJ

I
                                                                                                                                                              J't? MIII/P7°e5
                                    Number                 Per Cent                Number                 Per Cent                Nuntier               Per Cent                Number               PerCmt
         Evaluation         Certain DOlrbtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Ooubtfirl Total Certain Doubtful Total certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Ooubtfu Total Certain Doubtful Total
     0-Batloon               /.J.6 '30         7t /5.t. 1/J:f, :!5.t _;-7
                                                       ?7 '/II If}, //,9 JI.A. 1_? I/ 3! :ti./., (7 I :JP, I ,L/-,Z :;_3 ,{'S- 1.8' /1:1 13.6
     I-Astronomical            7       ) tJ 11 2.7      // lf3 /43 J,S /J.! 71 // 3? ?.O.t. '1.7 7'13 '{ ti S-.f 1..77 ; 7.1, //,5 H./
                                                               f.~     /...J    '3j


I   2-Aircrafl
    3-LightPh010m.
    4-Birds
                       3;; 3J £q 12.2, /(2- 1.'-4 2-6 2-7 .r:1 8.~ VI )l.3 ? ,< /3 ~L .1/r'i )t',£; U;.; :Z.6 7/) q7 S:s- N,7
                          .r ;z__ 7 /.,, tJ.7 2. ✓ 7 .II- II .2-! /,3 3,/, t) '2 ,z_ tJ.~ /.£
                         tJ ;J 0 17.tJ JJ, tJ ,?.I? ;J t} 0 /1/1 J?/1 /J /J tJ C/ ~ tJ.() tJ.o ,a;, I
                                                                                                                1 I 1/- ()./ a.J t?4
                                                                                                                      I .L 42 t),1 ~4
                                                                                                                                                                                u
    S-Cloud~ Dus~ et~    ;)  .3 3 t).t) ;.tJ /, CJ I     I 7 (1, 3 tJ,J t?.t I £) I ~g M tU I t) I P,2 ~o ,?, 7
I   6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
    7-Psychological
    8-Unkno'MI
                      7-/ t} ,2./ -I. I /}.,'J 'I I 71 t? 2-:? 7.Jf IP.CJ J,~ t f) £ j/,y t;/,0 jf.f '1~ t} f,:;} /'1,7 tP.O F,(.7
                        ,If .2. t l.rl IJ.7 :t..l 'I
                      ff.2   0 ~7 119 t?.t? :1'/9 ti
                                                        t}   'l 2'1 /J/1 2.' jj. ?I 4            NJ .12               t)   J /,0 0,/) /,u
                                                       t? ,f/ l/9.; /J.JJ l'U /fl f) /'I Vs.-; ti.I) IS:/ 79 ~ 7? /t,(,, f//l 16.?,                             ""                        s
                         CJ   f /J.. 11 ;tJ 4. I I/ If- IS- .7.J /,3 JI:? 1/.. .2.. b J:)_ /,t ,tt.<J /'1 3 12 J,t.;J t?.6 LtL
I
    9-0ther


        Total               )-//      u 7'7U 17;.f n:t- !v't' J.$1 !If 31/ 73.j .27.o /i?t), 71/' 32- I# '7#.6 l2s.1,                                                          MtJ,     .--J6'/f /jC/ Jt?J 77./ M_ 9' h1"!




I                                ,;- S'£t!l"/1,'/J< ,,~ ,!.$55
                                     Number                Per Cent
                                                                                       6
                                                                                    L-//1
                                                                                   Number
                                                                                                  /;;(!,:7/1/#f
                                                                                                         Per Cent
                                                                                                                     Z"                            ---
                                                                                                                                                     G
                                                                                                                                  //-.?,:J /e,../JA✓ /15
                                                                                                                                 Nuntler               Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                       J£e
                                                                                                                                                                                 ?/-,{,,:J
                                                                                                                                                                               Number
                                                                                                                                                                                               s-eeo,.,, ,::,.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Per Cent
          Evaluation        Certain DOlrbtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Oormthrl Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Ooubtfu Total Certain Doubtful Total


I    0-Balloon
     I-Astronomical
     2-Aircraft
                                I
                                I
                                 j      0
                                       #-
                                                t?    ~/,


                                   3 JI- c, Ii',% 2,;t,
                                                                l.tJ
                                                s- £2 '25,r; '11,2
                                                                      t),j       0
                                                                                 ?
                                                                                  .:;
                                                                                           0 0 P.t
                                                                                           2
                                                                                           I
                                                                                                   2_
                                                                                                   4-    2£/,
                                                                                                             /)/) IJ.£

                                                                                                         tJ.()   lb.? lt.7
                                                                                                                 l-5 19.J,J
                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                      t)
                                                                                                                                       I,
                                                                                                                                              3'
                                                                                                                                           ,Lf l/..7 /2~ l/£7
                                                                                                                                              0          I)
                                                                                                                                                        P.O O.u ~CJ
                                                                                                                                              s- !/ I JS:/ ,:2(},S Ii.ts.-~
                                                                                                                                                                                  t) t) ~L 0
                                                                                                                                                                                           C,
                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                      J
                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.t
                                                                                                                                                                                                               I     1()
                                                                                                                                                                                              .3 d- //,/ 33,J /111-.if
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Ill //.I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ao
     3-LighlPhOIOm.             C,  I I l),t, t,2 t.2                             ;J       t}       I)    ~        l?t ~J             y       0 0 (}J tJ.O t),,                            fl  I I M //,/ //,/
I    4-Birds
     5-Clouds, Oust, etc.
     6-lnsutfic.lnfo,
                                {)
                                [j
                                   0 t) 0.0 tJ.tJ at)
                                   C, 0/J.O /J.I) PO
                              .2. 0 '7 I.JS M J,2,5
                                                                                 C,
                                                                                 t}
                                                                                  I
                                                                                           D 0 I.I
                                                                                           [) tJ ti
                                                                                           0 I r,~
                                                                                                                   t',!,
                                                                                                                   at /J.1
                                                                                                                           r:J.()

                                                                                                                   t'-0 '!.3
                                                                                                                                      {)
                                                                                                                                       v
                                                                                                                                      2..
                                                                                                                                              0 0 0.0 (),t ~{)
                                                                                                                                              t? C ,1,P i?.O 0,0
                                                                                                                                              t} .2.. p       /),I) q, 'l
                                                                                                                                                                                           tJ () tJ a1J l).O M
                                                                                                                                                                                           I)
                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                     /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                     /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                               v    !},t)   l).t} /J,C)
                                                                                                                                                                                                               I 11,1 IJ.O Ill./
                               I) 0 t) tJ,() ~o ;J.()                            {,        tJ      t)    ~.t,     t),P     M         .2..     tJ :z._ 1.3 ae, !.3 t?                                t/ 0 tJI) ao ;J,()
I
     7-Psycholo~cal
    8-Unkno'"1                If {) If- 7.,~ 1..1 1..SJ                         s          0       s Ill.?        P,() 1/f.7          3       t? 3 ;:;,s j/) 12,; .t.                               0 ~- ,z;,;. 0,/) 122,.2.
    9-0ther                    f)  t) 0 l.t- /.0 J,p                             (/'      !)        ()   t'()      tJ.(, t),0         I       I 2.. th /f,2 "I.If (}                                tJ 0 M t?.0 iJ.()
                               g        'ii' It 'm; 5-;,I) ltlt),                "I        q /.2.. 7£"1) ,2S,0 li?R,                IS        9 M                                        4          F          r 1#1:P sr:, I/Pt',
I
        Total                                                                                                                                                  [:7-j :37,5 Im




                              /../ 56-!"A,,,,5-            ,:- .w,A,,,TEJ               /4 -.ft7                                            11,,,::,e                                                              ,,,.,.,- _t"rAr,e,()


I
                                                                                                                                                                                               /11,A.A-,..-.
                                                                                                     A ''JVVTG°5                                               .?/1     AA ·A1//7"(£S

                                     Number               PerCmt                      Number                Per Cent                       Number                Per Cent                Number                Per Cent
         Evaluation         Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total      ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total         ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
    ().Balloon                 {,       7 /3 11.Z 1177 l2s.s                     f        ,If      /t? l,41.      9..1 2~.-;           3   I ,4- .23.I 7.7 :Jt?.f,                         3       ,,2... J £./J /f,ti /tit)
     I-Astronomical            t,       C       ()     t),(J11,t) tJ./}          2.        3        s .4.~        7IJ l/1.~            I      t)
                                                                                                                                               I 7.7 0,0 ?:?                               3       ;L .5 i.P lf,p lt)./J

I    2-Aircraft
    3-LightPhn>m.
    4-Birds
                             /3
                               ()
                               ()
                                       II
                                       D
                                        0
                                              "l LL 1,t: 1'1 I,,( W-7,J

                                               0
                                                0 O.P
                                                       t)_/)   ~(} P.t
                                                               t).{) /)/,
                                                                                 6
                                                                                 3
                                                                                 ;;,
                                                                                           ff /LJ.. /Ir,£ I/K',£ 3.2A
                                                                                           t) 3       7.t? t'. t} '71
                                                                                           0 0 i?,(i /,t) ru
                                                                                                                                      2' 3    j- /5':,lf- '7-::/,J 13&.)
                                                                                                                                      C, t} 0 t?.O Cl,!) At
                                                                                                                                      {,, 0 o P,u {),() t),t,
                                                                                                                                                                                         /t}
                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                          iJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                   £./_. /#-

                                                                                                                                                                                                   £)
                                                                                                                                                                                                             #tJ %.t? 12(.()
                                                                                                                                                                                                          I lLO t?,p ..t..P
                                                                                                                                                                                                   I) t} I() tJrJ /1.,j
    :;.Clouds, Dus~ et~        /J        f,     0       fl.O    /).0   M         t,        0        0    (), t    o.v r11             0 {/ 0 tJ,t) CJ.{) t/P                      tJ 0 O,ti
                                                                                                                                                                                          0                                   /).0 ~p

I    6-lnsuffic.tiil.
     7-Psydlo~&ic:at
    a.~...
                              .2.
                               I
                               ~
                                        0
                                        I
                                        t}
                                                :2.
                                                2.. ?O
                                                        3.q

                                                      I S':7
                                                               f?.t) 3.'
                                                               '71) .4-0
                                                               /J,tJ JS°)
                                                                                2._
                                                                                 tJ
                                                                                 i
                                                                                           0         7   ~7
                                                                                           0 t) O,t tJ.0 /),L t) 0
                                                                                           C> ,{, ///;i? ~L ld/J /
                                                                                                                  /,)/)


                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                           1L         ,2.     0          ;)    /.>.If     I,() IY,11-
                                                                                                                                                          {., IM [),t? ,M t) 0
                                                                                                                                                                                7 0 7 /1/-,L
                                                                                                                                                                                      t) ~()
                                                                                                                                                           I 7.7 IJ,/) 7,'I /;2- £1 /.7 VI;/,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0,() /11,t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ().() t?,I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.() 11JJ,(J
                               ~        0       '}     'H      o.~ :;,;         3          [) 3 7,1)     11 '7/. I, C,                                   /J t).I t).() ,:/1.t) II :z. t: ,;',t)                             /./;/J /)../)

I
    9-01111,


        Total               3.2- I 'I         n f::J,/.1 37,j //JI} 2$                  /_j     IJ/3 lh.t;;I '3/1;9 /PP               y       4- 13 67"..Z 3v.;r 1:11?.                 ,If-(/    /~ 'SlJ '!P.J 17-tJ.P ///).


I                                                                                                                235

I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                              5' Sf=,./OAN.
                               Number
                                                  17RLe,s
                                                     Pei Cent
                                                             J!?e',t!,      ."5""°/6.U-r-✓Au~ ~




                                                                             Number
                                                                                       11. /Cl
                                                                                                            c-.n,e
                                                                                                    !,t;,-/1A, ✓7$

                                                                                                   Per Cent
                                                                                                                         -                    ,-,c
                                                                                                                                                //- ?/1
                                                                                                                                           Number
                                                                                                                                                        S/6~,,..,A 6
                                                                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                                                                                 Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                            -     - ,.eee
                                                                                                                                                                                     -r.

                                                                                                                                                                                         Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,,.,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                        5£ZtJA✓ Pf
                                                                                                                                                                                                  ?/-L./1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -r,e,v

                                                                                                                                                                                                               Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,,,,.,✓~rs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ·1
                       Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total ~ertain Doubtful Total Certain DoubU,I Total                   ertain Doubll,I Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubll,I Total


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
     Evaluation
0-Balloon                 t)      ,2_ :z_ N)       7,/ 7,/                    0           t? t? J)J M tl.O                             f)        I I M .4;-$ 4,-~ tJ                                    tJ /} tUJ It //.C
J-Astmnomical               ~     t?       3 Vti7 M /&,?                      0           t)      0 t1.J             PO tJ.t            t,       I I /),I, 11,1 /f.'l ~                                  I I P-0 {7 6.7
2-Aircraft                  J     .)...    7 /1,'1 'J./ ,tr.I)                3           ~       3 .JO,/)           /J,t}13?' I       1       3       II 3'1./ /1/, 3 lfza                 6           I 7 1JJl1{) t,7 II/,( 7
                                                           u 3,/,
                          0           I     I                                  ~         .2.. ,,2.. lt 'M.P ?JJ,                       t:,     t> t?                                        CJ          I /    ~6 £7 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
Hightl'tlenom.                                  tl.t)                                                                                                           t).0       /)/)    17,()
4-Birds                   i        If      t  7./ llh3 214                     p          I I /l./J IN II-,                             I t? I                  JI. 9      tJ.O 11:f         I I ,L                      t,7 6,7 !Vf
5-Clouds. Oust. etc.      CJ       0       tJ tJ.O I?. CJ ao                   0         /) 0       j_J) t.J, JJ.1                     ~       tJ       £)      tJ.t)      I,() I.IJ        0 /,) t?                     ~/)      M        /),()
S.lnsuffic. ~to.          2__     t?       7. ZI a~ 71                          I       0 I /I,!, j,, /t}-1,                           {,  0   /}               j{)        ~t /?/)          t? 0 tl                      M        tJ,()    tM
                                                                                                         t?i, t?.t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
7-Psydlolo~cal            0       /'}      {) PO N) tJ,()                      I,       {) ;J ll,t                                     ()0 t? t2{)           f)            /i,/) t7.ll              r)           t:)     tJ,J)    ,fl./)   0,/)
8-Unlrnolol              F        0        s IP.9 tJ.O /7,<                   3          t? 3 :JtJ.R 0,£, ~/)                         7 t? 7 133.J ~() 33,3 //-                                     p //- 'JA.7                   t?,t} I.U'
~Iller                    2..     /J       7     7/       /J.IJ 7.1            [,        t) I) ~t /?.P v',1,,                         f) j 0 /)J) (}.O /),() ~                                      t)           I)      /l,/)    tJ.O     /},I)

                                                                                                                                              s .;.; 1,/',{.t .ZJ-7 1/,». II #
    Total              If         9 /l.9 l.(7,7 J.z. ,M                       7         3 it? '711t 31',J) I/tit?. 1£                                                                                            JS- 71.3 U? lt?o.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
     Evaluation
0-Balloon
                         /4/ S't;t'OA/IJS -



                            I
                               Numbe,
                                                 4 M1111vre5
                                                     Per Cent                 Number
                                                                                     11, -.?tJ     M//VVr,J~.5
                                                                                                    Per Cent
                       Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu I Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobt~I Total

                            3 ~ '7? 6,'i 1.9 3 3 6 S:11 f:II Vt'-!T s
                                                                                                                                              /J,,,,e
                                                                                                                                           Nunter
                                                                                                                                                              ''tJ #tlVVT£$
                                                                                                                                                                Per Cent

                                                                                                                                                 t7 3 //,') ~t /1.7 5 CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                            /Jv.RA17,,:J/r/ 4/tJt' S-rArep
                                                                                                                                                                                        Number
                                                                                                                                    ertain DoubU,I Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain DoubU, Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                                ~.2 t).f, £;;...
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Per Cent

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,                                 I
 !-Astronomical
2--Airtraft
HightPtrenom.
I-Birds
                        ~
                            ?.2- 2 0./', ~~ /f.4 CJ t) 0 //./) /J.J M .2.
                            'l /.ij- /3,J /7,'/ :JI,/
                         I ,:L .3 I/') Jf,lf 6./,
                       t) £i // tJ,O O.o t?I) I)
                                                       ~   '1 17 /Id /6,/ 31,4 I
                                                      .2. 2 ,f :u 3,i 7,,7 0
                                                           I I ~/) /. ( /,? {/
                                                                                                                                                 s 7 i.7 11.7 '13./i I .3 3 M :/'I .!IJ
                                                                                                                                                CJ I g,J tJ,O ]3 17 //- :i-1 '.2.J,:l. C/1 12,: J
                                                                                                                                                0 t)                ao
                                                                                                                                                             to tJ,t) I I) I /,2 1),/) J,2
                                                                                                                                                0 t) tJ./) t20 /!() I    I 2. l,,Z. ;,;z... 7.JJ.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
5-Clouds, Oust, etc.
6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
7-Psytll>logical
&-Unknown
                        /,, t? t? rJ.O M t?.o         C, 0 0 ,P,t) tl.lJ tJ.ll {)
                       b t) 6 VJ. t?.O IL //) 0 /t? /7,9 /J,() 1~9 I
                       t)     I I /J,/) .2.2. .:Z.2 tJ {) 0 ~I) /?,/) l),t tJ
                     lt.f 0 /4 J;,/ tJ.{, JI,/ IF 0 /5 ~_Lj /l,() Ul' 12
                                                                                                                                                {) 0
                                                                                                                                                (J   I 3..:: t),t, 33 /9 C /9 LU M ?.'ii
                                                                                                                                                I I ~/)
                                                                                                                                                       0.1 0.() /JI) C t) t) If./) t?,IJ l,i,O

                                                                                                                                                0 /!'L ~/)
                                                                                                                                                                           'f,3 3,3
                                                                                                                                                                           tJ,() #di)
                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                           ;r
                                                                                                                                                                                                        I         ,2. /.J,
                                                                                                                                                                                                        CJ If 17,,; M I '2!.1 ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /,)_ .2.IJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
9-0ther


   Tot~
                       I £) I .1.,;z.. t?,f) :L,:Z I .z_ .3 M .J, /.. .£11 .J

                       .J-'! /£ t/.f" £.11,11 JS:6 la/ .Jo/ /7 ~6 IU//, 3/l.4 /(JO.                                                 2..J,j.
                                                                                                                                               tJ 3             II{/)

                                                                                                                                                h 3CJ 'I/?!) :Mt? /~
                                                                                                                                                                           t?t? /h'J        9
                                                                                                                                                                                           71       9
                                                                                                                                                                                                        /) q //.'). M //,Z

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ft? SB.E //,;).. '/0/),
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                            < <Ec!t?/lltJJ
                               Number
                                                 /),t)
                                                         17£.e
                                                          L&ss
                                                     Per Cont
                                                                         ,c,;::u77,,.,~


                                                                             Nunter
                                                                                     /,. -/tJ
                                                                                                 ,,.,,.,,
                                                                                                  <e •/JA,p..{
                                                                                                 PerCmt
                                                                                                                              -
                                                                                                                         Nuriler
                                                                                                                                        r?&        <,;::,, r/,A/ C
                                                                                                                                              / / - ?,7
                                                                                                                                               Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                              5'e~Clll/Pf
                                                                                                                                                                       Number
                                                                                                                                                                              c , _,,      A/     OA'
                                                                                                                                                                                                  f/-£./1
                                                                                                                                                                                            Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,,,,,,,=      ,.,,, icer<
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <ci!OA/tJJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
     Evaluation
0-Balloon
l•Astmnomical
2aA.ircraft
                       Certain OOUbll,I Total Certain DoubU, I Total Certain DoubU,I Total Certin Ooobll,I Total Certain Doubll,I Total Certain Doubtt,I Total Certain Doubtfu Total Certain Doubll,I Total
                            t,
                            c-
                            I
                                   0
                                     I
                                  ,,1..
                                           0
                                           I
                                           3
                                                 t/1, (),() ao t?
                                                 ao 1M //),0 u
                                                /(7,/) 71)_/) 3/).IJ            C,
                                                                                          t)

                                                                                          t)
                                                                                             I
                                                                                                  ?I
                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                             t?,t, I.P t?t
                                                                                                             r).() .51)/7 S-tl.t
                                                                                                  t? at tJ.o tJ.O
                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                       t,
                                                                                                                                       /,,
                                                                                                                                                tJ
                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                 /')
                                                                                                                                                          0 /JP t1t {20
                                                                                                                                                          I tJb 33.3 ~3
                                                                                                                                                          0 /J, ;J,I) 0,()
                                                                                                                                                                                             tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                            t,
                                                                                                                                                                                                        tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                        tJ 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                        /,)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         tJ.O      /J./)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         tJ.tJ tJ,t) tJO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /lf,3 ().!) /JI;~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /?.t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                            I,             0     tJ.O jl,t) P-0                I         0        I 5';, ()          /).{) ~/)         0        D 0                      t?.O ().()         j,       t? f) jC) ,1,1) {),/}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
3-Light Phenoa.                    /)                                                                                                                               t1l
4-Birds                    C,      I':,    0   /Jt         a;;      /)./)      0         tl        ,()       /),1    ao 00             0           I      I         at 37-3 33.J            ,;      t? .=J li/.?,9 /J.t) /12.,
5-Cloud~ Dust, de.         0       C       0 ()I           N /JJ,             t)         0        ,t?       /})      O.P (I/)          I,       f)      t?          l)r,   I,()  /J.t       ()      0 0 at /J./) hJ
6-lnsuffic.~ID.           3        t:)     ? .&),I)       t?.o 3t).1          /,         t)    CJ tJ,p IJ,C                  a~        0        0       r)           /JfJ  ao    t1.0       /,      I) t7 ;J.p ltJ /?O
                                                           ao tJ.1
7•Psycholo&ical
8-Unllno•
9-0ther
                          0
                          3
                          ()
                                   0       C    tJ,/)
                                  0 3 .30.t t?.t 3()0
                                  0 0 OJ. tJ.t p~
                                                                               /)
                                                                               /J
                                                                               0
                                                                                         0
                                                                                         /)
                                                                                               Cl ~L i!l) t?.O
                                                                                          t) . {) tJ.t ;Jj dO
                                                                                                  t)         IJ.1    t1.I.   (It)
                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                       r;
                                                                                                                                       tJ
                                                                                                                                                 I I
                                                                                                                                                IJ
                                                                                                                                                t?
                                                                                                                                                          0 !JO
                                                                                                                                                          /'}
                                                                                                                                                                    IJ.O -fi.~ 3.3.3

                                                                                                                                                                    o,r,
                                                                                                                                                                           0.0 a1;
                                                                                                                                                                           /JtJ    /7/";
                                                                                                                                                                                            t
                                                                                                                                                                                            3
                                                                                                                                                                                            /2
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  tl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3 ~9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  f)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ao t7. L N,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         {),()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t1.t f.l,Z?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  tJ,()    O.JJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
   Total                 7       3        /Cl ?'t,() J'P.() IN.               J          I .2 Sh) 0,tJ I/tit!                          /J      .3       3        0,D //)0./) IM.           7        tJ 7 //)1).0                  I). /J //JO,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
     Evaluation
0-Balloon
                          i./ <Et>/Jtf✓PJ - 5 ✓-?,/llv-rtf>

                       Certain
                           0
                                 -
                               DoubU,1 Total Certain
                             t? t' /!/) t),t do I
                                                     PerCmt
                                                      Doubll,I Total Certain
                                                                              6-2tJ M/NvTE$
                                                                             Nratrer
                                                                             Ooublfut Total
                                                                                         ~
                                                                                            Certain
                                                                                                    Per Cent
                                                                                                      Doubtful Tolll
                                                                                           I 1/,.2.f tJ.P /,2..f u t?
                                                                                                                     ...,.;n
                                                                                                                             /J,,,,e ?. M/IVViE,
                                                                                                                             Number
                                                                                                                             Doubtful Total Certain
                                                                                                                                                    Percent
                                                                                                                                                     Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                      /7,M,.r/,,:Jtl/ ,,Pr S-r,;,4&,,
                                                                                                                                                                            N•-                   Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                    Certain Doubtful Total Cer1ain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                                         f) 4t ;J.j tJL,                    tJ      t?            I)     /J.()     ~o ,1/J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                          0 I I                                                         I I ~ () 17 t; J,Zt; 3 t?                                       .=? /,S,{/ t?.tJ /Si                 I      I?            I                /l.t 5:3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
l-Astrono11ical                      /J.0 //7.t //).I) CJ                                                                                                                                                               5:.'
2-Aircrlfl                C '7 .J-- tJ.O 'LJ.0 VJ.I, t                                  £i t) tJ.tJ t?.IJ It I) I                                        I ,:2() r./J s;t,                  I?      I             I     ,n 5:.'? l'I'
Hight I'll-.              p t> !) t7,i tJ.I) t?.t 2                                      tJ .2- I.to      tU, 2,("~     I ,:o rJ.tJ o,() t? 0
                                                                                                                                        I      ?J                                                                 I)    t). ()    t),t)    P-0
4-Birds                   I ,J) I   //).1, /).0 1ao 0                                   ,:J       t:) O.t v,1j l/J
                                                                                                                 I/    f) /J.t) ,;?,t; t10 0  tl
                                                                                                                                               CJ                                                                 t}    Ci(J      ().tJ    at,
                          .c                               ao ;J.(,                                                 C t) tJ.tJ ao M tJ ~
                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
5-CIOllds,llus~otc.               t)             ti                            0        t)  ,-? t?.t t?.IJ tJ.I) ()                                                                                               0     12P         !).t /./)
6-lmtli, lllo.            I)      0       0      1/l       at       ;J.1       I         tJ I !]t; M 112-.> 0 t? 0 tJ.IJ tJ.o tP.i 6 Cl                                                                           t    ,1,6        ,J,t) ?1,6
                                                 ao tJ.O dt                                                                                                                                                      .z. lt?.5"
-
7•Psydloloaical            ()     t? 0                                         /)       CJ t? .-7,() (}.() tJ.t I   t? I ,0 NJ .~I "J CJ                                                                                          ,1.0 /,1,5
8,-                         ?     ,:J     3     ~I)       (),I) ?tJ.0         J         t? 3 q7,5 O.t 3Z5 /3 t? 13 l.f:I? /,() ff,p 7 £?                                                                          7 31.'D         ~d ?1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 :z, /M'
   Total                7
                         3

                                 ~
                                  ,?)     .3 3t!P tJ.t? 3(),/)
                                          IC 17/.P 3/),() /a/ 7
                                                                               I)       t? t} tit tU, I?~ CJ I
                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                       I tJ,t;! r,~ ,,-t, '2 t?
                                                                                                 8' t'7..{ /,2,,f ltJt?. / (                  ~        :zo IVP ltJ.v' lv't1 /8'                     I         /'I 9'4,'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   !?I. /P,S


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  £3 /PP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                    236
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
I
I                                                                                                                  (/Gftr/A/6 S:
                          1M4if              /Ital            lf&L.llllVCW            (2F        //A/if                                     ,€,U ,UL. t/E,,UU &( All/HM# ,Z.P (?AJ4f4TS
                                                              .,...,..., s ,
I        Evaluation
                               .< ~c&J/1//Js- ,,A Leu
                                   lllmbef               P!fC01t
                                                                                     L.-/LJ
                                                                                 Nunter
                                                                                                 .,.,.,.
                                                                                                  S'el""'"'"'
                                                                                                       Per COil
                                                                                                                ...,,JAA,r/,,..




                           Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                    /;&       - , ,,_ A,G A///ud •p ,:?F .,,,, = A -.
                                                                                                                                           //-.?/1
                                                                                                                                         Number
                                                                                                                                                         ,',;~~A/'1(

                                                                                                                                                               Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                      .,,,,_. <rA, iJ
                                                                                                                                                                                       ff;. //./7
                                                                                                                                                                                       Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                     5".r:t!,:J/Vt:JS"
                                                                                                                                                                                                              P!fC01t
                                                                                                                                  ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Olllbtful Total Certain Doubtful Tot~



I    ~Balloon
     1-Astianoraical
     2•Aircrlft
     Hiibl1'11"1011L
                               tl t) /,l pl) /lp
                               ?
                              ()
                              /J
                                        t)
                                        I
                                        /J
                                               y 16.?
                                               I
                                               u
                                                               P,/? HJ
                                                      tJ.t 3.?.3 D.3
                                                       A~      ,.,,
                                                                       It

                                                                      /J.1
                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                           Y/
                                                                                                                                    //
                                                                                                                                      I

                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                    t:.
                                                                                                                                            /)
                                                                                                                                            I')
                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                             tJ 0 11
                                                                                                                                                     I SM
                                                                                                                                                     0    /).C,
                                                                                                                                                                  tJ,() ,Ft?.
                                                                                                                                                                  C),{)   (/./,
                                                                                                                                                     I S-1.0 tP.tl .Fl,/J t?
                                                                                                                                                                  /J./) {)./,
                                                                                                                                                                                   I}
                                                                                                                                                                                  C-

                                                                                                                                                                                   ()
                                                                                                                                                                                           0 0 t.t
                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                            /).0
                                                                                                                                                                                                            P,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    o t.u tJ./) tJ.I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /J.O tl.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /)./,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /).t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          J.i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              t.{)


I    4-Birds
     5-Clouds, Dus~ et~
     6-lnsuffi~ ~lo.
                               ~
                              /)
                               p
                                        /J
                                        t)
                                        !}
                                               () ,l.tJ 1J/,
                                               tJ J'!1 (}.{
                                               0       /JI     t?t
                                                                       ()/
                                                                       ().t
                                                                       tJI             \
                                                                                            (\
                                                                                            .
                                                                                                    ~                               ?
                                                                                                                                    C.
                                                                                                                                    t,
                                                                                                                                            tJ 0 /),/
                                                                                                                                            () cJc.o al, t)f) tl
                                                                                                                                            C) 0 0.1) C,t, tJ,I tJ
                                                                                                                                                                   a I.P           I       0
                                                                                                                                                                                           t?
                                                                                                                                                                                           t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                    I /lt!,O
                                                                                                                                                                                                    /,)
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                            () {)
                                                                                                                                                                                                             c2()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A, IA/!,(/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     t?.t ~/,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     11.0 O.t
     7-PsydDlo&ical            0        ()      t      tit     /)/     tJ,t            \                                            C,      0 0 tJ.P t?,C) ao t?                           0        0       M        /)_O      M
I    1-Unlmown
     !I-Other
                              (?
                               0
                                         0
                                        !)
                                               t) /?I.
                                               0 ()/
                                                               0/)
                                                               /)L
                                                                       /)/
                                                                       11
                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                    /,
                                                                                                                                            CJ tJ
                                                                                                                                            C,     0
                                                                                                                                                          IJ.t
                                                                                                                                                          ,1()
                                                                                                                                                                  t!t? t)t)
                                                                                                                                                                  NJ o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                  /)
                                                                                                                                                                                  C,
                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                    tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                            00
                                                                                                                                                                                                            tJ.()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     tJ.P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /), /) N)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              t1.()


         Total                .2..       I     .? /£,7 .JJ.J wa                                                                   2        tJ 2. /41,p            /).() //)t7.     I       0         I 1/JrJ.I)     /).t)    voo,
I
                                     <e:t!d/1/17.f - ,::;- M1✓1,uT'ES                                                                      l?.,c a                                a,,,,,,no111

I
                            L./                                                     ,t.-.?,-, /1,. IA/VrE!                                               ~n ,,,,.,vrE,                                    ,,hr    S'T,47EO
                                   Number                Per Cent                 Number                PM COil                          Number                Per Cent                Number               Per COit
          Evaluation       Certain D"'btfuI Total Certain Doubtfu I Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Dlllblful Total          ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu Total Certain Dlllbtful Tota
     ~Balloon                  1        tJ     :2 -l'AP         dtllll-1,I)    C)      I I tlt 33,J :,3.3                            I,.   0         0    ao ao /).0 I t? I X/J /.0 .5'.0
     1-Asbonomical             t,       0       0 O.t         ().I) 0.0        (/     0 0 0,/) ~o (lb                                 I     rJ       I 1.2,5 tW /,2.,5 II I 1.2... l?J.3 3,0 30
I    2-Aircraft
     3-Liat,ll'lltllOm.
     4-Birds
                               I
                               I   /J
                               ,:) 0
                                       0        I '}/}/)      M lup
                                                I ~.I) /J{) 11IJ,O
                                               b arJ ,1,/) C}.()
                                                                               t>
                                                                               0
                                                                                I
                                                                                      0 0 ()() ()~ tJ.O
                                                                                      0 0 /JI /J~ /J.O
                                                                                       tJ 113'3.3 ~I ~3,3
                                                                                                                                     /)
                                                                                                                                     ()
                                                                                                                                    .7
                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                            {)
                                                                                                                                            /J
                                                                                                                                                     tl tJ.O /J.rJ ().() I 3 4 3,/) q_ I /.2,/
                                                                                                                                                    ,1 M l/.0 /)j u I         I M ?.f) .J.{)
                                                                                                                                                   ,;_ :U-!) ()0 25.t [, ,:) t) /}I tJ.D /}.,:)
     5-Cloud~ Dus~ et~         () 0            /)      M tJ.O 11,              C      tJ t? 0.0 tJ.0 1.1                            /J     t?      c? 0.0 ()_/) {//J /} 0 f) ao t?,O /) /J
I    6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
     7-Psycllolo1ical
     8-Unknown
                              t?
                               j
                                I ;;?
                                       /l
                                       ,jJ
                                               t)
                                               ~
                                                I l-71,?.;:) tJ.O [?J.10
                                                       1'!1   ().CJ {)./}
                                                       o.a IJ.{) t.r,
                                                                              {)
                                                                              u
                                                                               I
                                                                                      0
                                                                                      {/
                                                                                      {)
                                                                                              0         (I/,
                                                                                              ;J /J.O {J.(, tJ. /)
                                                                                               I l33.3 /J,~ JJ.3
                                                                                                                   tJ.t O,/J        .7
                                                                                                                                    ;J
                                                                                                                                    2.
                                                                                                                                           t)
                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                   ~ 12_,.t,>
                                                                                                                                                   0   ()()
                                                                                                                                                  ,1.... 2St
                                                                                                                                                                  ,j,JJ ~
                                                                                                                                                                  r:J.O tJ,1,
                                                                                                                                                                  P.D l:if.t
                                                                                                                                                                                  u
                                                                                                                                                                                   z t}
                                                                                                                                                                                  .f"
                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                          ,,J
                                                                                                                                                                                                    y l.11L1
                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                    s /~1
                                                                                                                                                                                                            /J,()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1),/J 111.;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .M J/,J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IJ,/, IS:.J
                              6         0             /J,t    tW t1t?          t      0       0 nd tJ.() DO                                ,:?                                             t?       I
I                                                                                                                                                    I J:Z,'
     9-0the'r                                  /J                                                                                     I                           I,/) 1/15       I                        :?,()    c?CJ 3,1)

                              .5       /}                     /). t I /.1C/   .2.     I       3 (t,7 131,3 ;t?t?.                   ff      t?                    tU- 11~0. :Z.7 C 3g 113'/.3 /!,1 II/JO,
                                               '     /tl).t                                                                                       fr     l~P
         Total




I
I
I
I
 I
 I
 I
 I
I
I                                                                                                                 237


I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
     .
                         5' <c ,_,,,, <
                              Im-
                                                         LJP',£,
                                                  _,. Les<
                                                    PerC01I
                                                                      s.
                                                                                    £.-//7
                                                                                  Number
                                                                                                  C~A


                                                                                              <;eM/1/.tJS
                                                                                                             Ad,, L1 r/t7,?/



                                                                                                        Per COIi
                                                                                                                                     Ar-

                                                                                                                                      /1-~/J
                                                                                                                                    Nu-
                                                                                                                                            -    •/     -1A




                                                                                                                                                      ,,,-__
                                                                                                                                                                /




                                                                                                                                                          Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                    -.s
                                                                                                                                                                                  AA/§



                                                                                                                                                                                  Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                   /7d,/p-,:!,r
                                                                                                                                                                                           ?/., L./J       S'°eeO.Ao1_r
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
     Enlualion        Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total        ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total     Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Toi~
11-lllllooa
l·Astlunomical
2-Aircraft
                       .3 3 ,b /.] J.3 ,t.6 '1 3 s .1..2 J,j s:s .J .r 'l 2.,:i... J.I
                      P- 77 /5""1 .'K? ¼9 67,9 :u /7 .43 '1>',,( /%,7 '11-71 '2D.
                                                                                                            9 9' J( 7,5 2'J /Sv
                                                                                   1 33 /7,S L, :.z2q f y IP. 7,5 #,1 //.l
                      /,; It/ ?1 ,ti, /,t, /,2,I, /2 f' ,u /],2 'U "171. l i :Z3 M' /,.g /,(5 l:n, ?::/ IJ 3( lf.J-. 12.; .J/,?
                                                                                                                                                                          u                                                            I
                       2. {)        t. t),t, ;?.9 I t)     I I.I l).t /, I I       I '2.. ,1,7 IJ,? /,,LI. tJ tJ /) a, At IJ,/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
3-Li&hl Phenoa,,               ~
4-Birds                0   0 tJ l.t rJtJ t7,1, 0 CJ I/ tJ,() M 1./J t> t) CJ /l,t aP tJ.t) /) 0 i} J?t /21, t)~
~-Dus~etc,             0 I     I tJ.P l!JI. air    0 t? {} M             (),/, t? '7  !l_  tJ,I, jJ,t /,I;  ao
                                                                                                             I) 0     tJ I'.; j,t cw
6-r...trlc. lnlo,     10 tl It? 1./3 t/,() iL £ t? 6 .,5,6 0.0 ,{/, l.'1 Cl/.'? 9,,41 t?,()                //)   Cl It? f:3 N iJ                                          u
·-                            ,:L /.    t1.() a~   tJ Cl () l)P t?.t I},/) 2.. I 3 /.1,1- 47 ,Z,J                    .:L 1,7 J?I) I, '7

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
7-Psydlllopc:al        ?   0                                                                                 ?  /)
                      /I, 0 1.r 6.Ji t).0 /11 /,.,J.  ;:; 14 /£it 0,/) If),; 7-5 tJ ~,; JU aP /'1,/, -:?3 /) ?3 ,2.7,.5 ~I) 177,
!I-Other               7 3 //) :1.l /.3 1/.3 ? i} 2.. .2.2 .ao 2,l JI. 4- 7 7~ ?JI S:ff 3 .z 5' J.5 1,7 4,2
                                                                wo. 63 ,,2-f 11 £f.~ 3/J.'l Jt)(), i/f' /fS 13'1 >1/.~ 3?.~ lbO 1 '! .3/ I~ 7~2 25:1 I/PO,
    Total             /3.G r8' '2.3IJ 55,/ 11-11. 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
0-~loon
         Evaluation                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
2-Aircnfl


4-Birds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
S-Cloud~ Dus~ el~
6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
7-Psychological
8-UnknDM'I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
9-0ther


    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                              5"' 5£t!PA/IJ5 tJR Less
                               Number
                                                       ,,,,,,_
                                                      Percent
                                                                       •,;vr,/V"               ""~"'- - .
                                                                                       t -It? Set!,::w.Ps
                                                                                    Number           Per Cent
                                                                                                                               /1&



                                                                                                                             Nurrter
                                                                                                                                          .~//4#7"'/A/r-.
                                                                                                                                      //•ft?           '-'t:1::(,,,15
                                                                                                                                                   Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                                                                                                  fi,//)

                                                                                                                                                                                            ?/-6t:l
                                                                                                                                                                                                   _,,,,_ i-A-r..5'




                                                                                                                                                                                                Per COIi
                                                                                                                                                                                                             <e(!/7/1/t.:JS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
         Evaluation   Certain Dllllbtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doll>llul Total Certain Dooblful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu Total Certain Doubtful Toi~
0-Balloon                 t7     0         t) 1.0        JO
                                                         1,1)                t)          tJ 0       ~I,      tJ.!) /J.0        I      3 ii- Jt3 17.CJ IJ.3                          t}      O·        /)  0.0 tJ.() t),0
1-Asbonomical
2-Aircraft
                          I
                          I
                                 3
                                 3
                                          LL £,7 l2P,t) 11.7
                                          JI 1,7 ~t) :U,';
                                                                              /)
                                                                              ~
                                                                                      .2.     2    tJ.O /5',:Z /'f,2.
                                                                                         I ,II.. ,Zl,3 'I.I J6.J/.
                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                               £      .,
                                                                                                                                      0         /)      /i.0 CJ./) /)./)
                                                                                                                                                // 2£./ 7f7 #7.ff
                                                                                                                                                                                    /J
                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                            .3
                                                                                                                                                                                                      I   ;J.t //. I /I.I
                                                                                                                                                                                                    .If- //,/ 33,J /ll/c4
                                                                                                                               v                                                                             to //,/ II.I
                                           I IJl f,7 6.'J                              tJ           tJv /!) t{/)                                J) ~l               M                          I      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
3-Li(IIIPh"""-            t)      I                                          I)               t)                                       t?                                  (),t    I,
4-Binls                   t}     t)       0 t},/) /J.t) /)0                   {,       0      I}    /}.I)   tJ.tJ 00           t)     t}        f)      10          t)!) t?.t      t)       t7        /)     tP-0 /)t)        /).0
S-Cloud~ Dust, el~        tJ     ,.:;     t? I,{) t7.(j 0.0                   {,       0      0     a~ tJ.!) M            tJ CJ ;J M                                /JI) tJ,t       /)      0        tJ t),t P,t) tJ,p
6-lnsuffic. ~to.        .:z. tJ ,,z 11.?.J /J.t) l?.3                         I       £)      I 9./          {21) 9./      1 /1 ~ 3.7 /),t '/.7                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                   ./)
                                                                                                                                                                                            t)       I //,1 O,J //,/
                                                        It M                 p                t) ()./?        M I,[; 2.. /1 2.. 7.7 I.I) S\''7                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
7-Psydlololical          ?1 t?            ~    17/J                                   t)                                                                                                             t)     CJ, t     (),/)   tJ,t
&-Umu,o..                4      /J       J.1- 1-?t?     (),I ?t, 7           /1-     £)       J.L 31,4       tJ.!) l~.6.' 2._ t/ ,;2. 'l.7 ,M 'i.7                                  7       /,)      'J    12.-       (J,!) 22.i.
!1-0liler                 t)     tJ      ~     0.0      0.0 [},!)             I/     0        ,0    (),t    tJ,I) /),t    I I ') //,3 /n 1.6                                       t)       tJ       £)      J.t      I?,/) tJ. {)

    Total               1        7 IS- B3 Jlt.7 1//)t',                      (       3       If 7.2, 'i27.3 Vt?CJ, ;q. r 2..3 111?.9 l.1f./ IIM                                    #       .F 'l' /#1./, s-s;t IM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                      /4/ .>E4/JA,'15 • S' M,A,f/TES                                tf, -ft} A /AU,'7'/:S                           /Jve,e .?tJ M,11/vres                          IJ,,A;,r,tp,r/          vi?r <r,.,,,,.,
                              Jmmber                PerCSlt                       Number                Per Cent                    Number                Percent                 Number                Percent·
     Evaluation       Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total        ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total      ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Dooblful Total certain Doubtful Toi~
0.Balloon                /,         ,    II /f.6 //,II- 1..;-t)              3        3       ff' /3.'       ff.   1.2         .?      I        4 125'/) '1,3 ~33                   'l      :z_ J../. .4.3 /f.3               8', I,
                                          [) t1() ;Jo t?,t?                                   5"' F.6'l3 /3,'                  0                tJ        /J,{I M                                    .s- 6,7 )f.3 ltJ,'l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
l•ASllUnomical            I         I)                                       2..     3                                                 0                tJ,(J                       3      .,Z.
2-Aircraft              /3        (      11 1-~S l[.J. IL7,7                 s       .,- //) l],'J IN? m                       '7      3        , j 1/.7 1-,A ii/7                  9'      ';/    1;z.. 119.6' 6S u/
Hi(IIIPh9"m.             C        {)      0   t?/J M M                        .:;      0 ;J 'i,3 tJ.O '3:                      0       (}       t? t7,[; tJ,() 1,()                 I 0              I 17 /l,0 ,2,;.
C.Birds                  I)       0       I) ~I, /J.0 /)ti                   ()       I) tJ /),t t?.t7 ao                      !)      /)       tJ      41          l.11 t),()     IJ tJ             /)     (),0      .at? ()_(}
                                                                                                             a                                  tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
S-Clouds, Dus~ et~       0        0      0 tJ,t, (),I) O,/)                  0        {7      /)    j()             IJ,/,      f)     0                0.()         tJ.() /},/,    C       [)        ~      '1,t)     tJ.!J at?
6-lnsuffi~ 11111,         ?       ~       'J Jl.,5 tJ.O )/;5                 I        0       I ,2S         tJ.() ..Z.J        7      /)        ,;z. lli.7 t?.t? If.?               7      t?   7 IS::Z. 0./J /S::l..
7-Psydlolopc:al           I I            .2 2: 23 II;/                        C,       t)     0 /),()        /Ji    at         /)     0         C      tO           t',() /).I)     /)     t?       p,() M ao
                                                                                                                                                                                                    j?
._                       7 I)             7 /),9 ,M /,-'1                    /,      0        I 11.7        ao '/£.7           I      ()        I       j;
                                                                                                                                                                    J.O 1,j II             tJ 1// 123.9 ao ;2,3,9
~



   Total
                         I      0         I   .i..3

                      3t? I.If- 1M Ci ,!f.<i[ /t,t) :;.s
                                                        at?      2.          .'?     0         ? >l.3

                                                                                    II 36 69.lj 3/J.6 uo.
                                                                                                             PC 11.3           0
                                                                                                                              8'
                                                                                                                                      0         i}      0,/J

                                                                                                                                     ,,If- 12 Ct.'! ?33 lt?O,
                                                                                                                                                                    rJ.O tJ,()     L/..

                                                                                                                                                                                  37
                                                                                                                                                                                           L         6       ls.7

                                                                                                                                                                                            '1 dt: 'S'/.1/ If.I Ito.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      J/.,3 /Y,{)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                            238
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
-----------------------------------------




I
I
I                                 ,;- <F et:J,-,,,,,,
                                      Number
                                                        ,,,,
                                                            t'E.1/.

                                                            Per Cent
                                                                    Le-u
                                                                              <,,-    -



                                                                                      Number
                                                                                                  ·~
                                                                                                       ,{,-/I?
                                                                                                                 c,-,,>



                                                                                                            Per Cent
                                                                                                                                        .- -
                                                                                                                              ·e,,,.,Ant_s
                                                                                                                                                                  /1&        S'/,< u-r,A//2
                                                                                                                                                                               //, "'"' .>ct!t:J/1/d.f"
                                                                                                                                                                            Number  Number  Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                           rp;;;,:


                                                                                                                                                                                                          Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -r71        '7'7!!',I/

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .J'/-~ t:7 5.:C0/1/d.I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /),//fJC~TS




            Evaluation        Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total r.;ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total i.;ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total


I      0-Balloon
       1-Astruoomical
                                 tJ .2- .2- '?,.., '1'/ -?,/
                                  i tJ .J //J1' /J..O 1/t?.?
                                                                                          ti
                                                                                          t)
                                                                                                         t)
                                                                                                        t)
                                                                                                                   tJ
                                                                                                                 ,M '1.0 1t
                                                                                                           /J "I) f)_t) ff)
                                                                                                                                                                    t)
                                                                                                                                                                   t)
                                                                                                                                                                               I I t:J.(} 5.5' S:.i'
                                                                                                                                                                               I I tJ. tJ ,;-s S"-f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          j
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         C.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 t? /?J)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I     l.t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        f.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /1/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6, 7
       2-Aircraft                J" 2    7 IH9 7./ 25":o
                                 c I I ·,1/J !?,/, .f.£
                                                                                          -J
                                                                                          u             .,
                                                                                                       tJ ,1_ j.:1.,1. t)./, 7'.1-1
                                                                                                           2'. /i,o ?'2."2 1?21
                                                                                                                                                                   7           g //} .rt.q /5.i' 1{°2,(
                                                                                                                                                                               t} tl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         £
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I        7 l.t14tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I           0.t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,, '1 m,7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        p, 17
I
       3-Li&i'I Ph"10m.                                                                                                                                            JJ                          /,).CJ   l?.tJ 1.00                      I
       4-Birds                   7 /I f     '7.1 /~.? :ll«                                v             I / h:? II./ II,/                                           I          t} J 5:.J' z?./.l 1..::.?                  I             I        _2_          6,7       £,7 /::JU
       5-Clouds, Dust, etc.      t:? t? (J I.OJ? /) /} /! /)                              tJ           £) t) tJ,1, tJ.IJ /)_()                                     u          I) {) t?.O ,.,. /) 10.0                    /)             t) t)                 tUJ       ~t)       /). ()
       6-Jnsuffic.tnfo.         .2- 0 .2... 7. I /J/J '7./                                I             CJ I 1//,/ /J.0 //,/                                        C,        (} /) ao 0.0 00                            t)         0 C                        It       tJ,t)     tJ,/)
                                 /J t? /J ;?,-, r,1,1 t(;?                                                                                ,u C.i                              tJ 0 /Jt) ao ao                           t)          ?> /l tJ.() tJ.tJ /J. ()
I
       7,Psydlolo~cal                                                                     ,:j          /J           t)         /),~                                 t)
       &-UnlUlown                5' ;;? .r ;;(,; t:J_/J ,.,.9                             3            CJ 3 !?3.3 ()./) !JY,3                                       £         CJ 6 .?1.t CJ.tJ l?/.t                    /I-        /J 4 ti.7 /,,Cl li.7
       9-Qthe,                   .1 /) .2- ?;/ ;? /J -, I                                 I,           C) 0 M ti.t' tf.,e;                                         /)         0        0       r,10     0/7    /JO       t')        /J CJ  j,t ~.t (}_o

                                          r .2$ t7.9 5'.2. / /t7C/
I         Total               I 'I                                                        6            3             'I "b6'l IJ33 //)/), Ill ..5 I 9' ',f.J'.? 2t..f 1/~                                               II         #             /.> 73.3 ~7 1/t'ti,'




I           Evaluation
       0-BallOOII



I      !•Astronomical
       2-Aircraft




I      6-lnsuffic. tnfo.
       7-Psycholo1ical
       8-Unkno""


I      9-0thor


          Tot~




I                                5' S'et:t:J/1/t?t ,.,,,, L ,e-s<
                                      Number
                                                                 LJ;;,11,,


                                                            Per Cent
                                                                               --

                                                                                    Number
                                                                                          - G
                                                                                                       ~ -/O
                                                                                                          Per Cent
                                                                                                                   ,:,?,>,

                                                                                                                      5et!P.A/t:J.I
                                                                                                                                   ...,   .,.A _   _...
                                                                                                                                                                   /JJ:        ,--,,c,,--r-,A/G
                                                                                                                                                                              /l-f/7
                                                                                                                                                                                Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                         E,t.£//eV ,,,,e
                                                                                                                                                                                               ....F~--A"'.J"                       ::>/- & n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,1/,::J,t!,!;          ,.-1,,;.,~&rs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5e'1~IVO.r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PerCmt
                                                                                                                                  Nuniler               Per Cent


I           Evaluation
       0-Balloon
       I-Astronomical
                              Certain Ooobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu
                                 ;;,
                                  {,
                                           ,1
                                          ()
                                                 0
                                                 o at
                                                        ,-1 /,        tJ.t
                                                                      t).f)
                                                                               Jo
                                                                               /1.i
                                                                                          (/
                                                                                          r;             ()
                                                                                                             I            I M _;-M .,Al)
                                                                                                                     t) P,/)              It t).p 0
                                                                                                                                                                    [J            t)
                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                        /J
                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.0 /2/) t2tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                  /)/,33.3 ?'?.
                                                                                                                                                                                                  ao t).t) /J.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I)            I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            t-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Total Certain Dwbtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       c:,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ;JI,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IJ.f)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         tJ.() tP.t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         dtJ tJ.!)
       2-Aircraft                     I   .2 .:J 1/lf.3 '~6 J/.,2,1                           I          0            I It;'/.!)           ().{) I;"»,/)            f,         /)       I)                               ~              /J            I)       IJ.JJ     {/~       /J.f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ao li.L
I      3-Li&i'IPh""m.
       4-Birds
       S-Cloud~ Dus~ etc
                                  0
                                  l,
                                  ?
                                          /J /} t.o M 0.0
                                          0 0 tJ.!, 0.0 {),O
                                          0 C ()./) (.() /Jl,
                                                                                          0
                                                                                          tJ
                                                                                           C,
                                                                                                         I)
                                                                                                         t)
                                                                                                           (.,
                                                                                                                     /J /J,/)
                                                                                                                      t? O.tJ
                                                                                                                     ;J         a~
                                                                                                                                           !,/)      M
                                                                                                                                           P,f) ,Cl,/)
                                                                                                                                           iJ.tJ /)t,
                                                                                                                                                                    ;;
                                                                                                                                                                    17
                                                                                                                                                                    I,
                                                                                                                                                                               C 0
                                                                                                                                                                                   I I
                                                                                                                                                                                  0 /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                  1V t?,t t?J
                                                                                                                                                                                                 /J.C 3J,3 33'
                                                                                                                                                                                                 a~      IJL /J.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         t,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        {)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        {)        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,:;__ lfM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /)0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ~()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        M J#,/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        t2tJ tJ.O
       6-Jnsuffic.lnfo.           I       {)   1/t/-;'3 M /11.3                           I              I'          f}         ()t        t:?,P ll.t               /)         t)       0        4L t?.t t.L             ~              t?            ,Cl       ()JJ    ao t1t
I      7-Psychological
       6-UnknoMI
       9-0ther
                                 {
                                  v t?
                                  ~
                                          t}
                                          tJ
                                                 /,
                                                  j /1...29
                                                 t,
                                                        M
                                                        N,           M
                                                                      /JJ', J./)
                                                                     ,1,tJ ,1/-.)4
                                                                              /),/)
                                                                                          L
                                                                                          ;J
                                                                                          {)
                                                                                                        L
                                                                                                        1.'
                                                                                                       I,
                                                                                                                     tJ tJ.P
                                                                                                                     I}
                                                                                                                     (/ 11/J
                                                                                                                                f),t,
                                                                                                                                           /)_I
                                                                                                                                           0,0 1,/)
                                                                                                                                          (//)      M
                                                                                                                                                          ,1./,      t,
                                                                                                                                                                    I)
                                                                                                                                                                    tl
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                   I

                                                                                                                                                                               t? CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                        /'}
                                                                                                                                                                                                 £}.~ ?.3-3 33.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ~{}
                                                                                                                                                                                                 tJ.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                         IJ.P /1.t
                                                                                                                                                                                                         aL      t?.t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          {)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          :?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        () 3 iftJ.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        t? t? /).I,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      !)        /).(,     t.tJ t).f,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         t)./) 6,j,I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /J./)    /).()



 I         Total                S"        ~       7 71.IJ ,n,t MO,                        I                 I       .2.... S"P.tJ Sl,tJ /tJt),                      I/        ..3 3              P./) //)0.() /tl/),    s           p             F          //)/),/)    tJ,O /tit),




 I          Evaluation
       0-Balloon
                               /4/ .),=,'"'A'tiJ>



                                 ()
                                      Number


                                          tJ     ;?
                                                        s ""-1V ,.1Tc,
                                                            Per Cent


                                                        ~l ~o IJ.(,
                                                                                      /4 -S't) M111/1.1Te.I
                                                                                    Number


                                                                                              I
                                                                                                          Per Cent


                                                                                                           {/
                                                                                                                                  /h,,e,(! .?0 M,,vvres
                                                                                                                                   Number


                                                                                                                      I l,2S tl,t) 17,;
                                                                                                                                                        Per Cent


                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                          l7n4A T//?AJ

                                                                                                                                                                                Number

                                                                                                                                                                               I)       I/
                                                                                                                                                                                               ,i,or Sr,u-e/?

                              Certain Doubtful Total Certarn Doubtful Total ~ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                 .Ct)
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Per Cent


                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,1,t) /,I)      tJ            I)            t?         rJ(,    /J,C t),t,

 I     I-Astronomical
       2-Alrcraft
       3-Li&i'I Ph""m.
                                  I/
                                  tJ
                                  t?
                                          2
                                          0
                                           I
                                                .L
                                                0
                                                  I     /)./. 10.L //)/.
                                                        /).f. ~.I ?Ill
                                                     il.t             a1, at
                                                                                           0
                                                                                          I,
                                                                                          ,;_
                                                                                                        ,1
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                      /)
                                                                                                                      ~
                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                          I    t,() 12,5' /2.5

                                                                                                                                ..
                                                                                                                               tJ.I) t),tJ /),0
                                                                                                                              ,, ,   11./:) ?,J
                                                                                                                                                                    3
                                                                                                                                                                    I/
                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                  ()
                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                        ~ 11Llj
                                                                                                                                                                                        I /JI) £7 t7
                                                                                                                                                                                        I i.7 hJ b. '7
                                                                                                                                                                                                         M ?Ill,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ;;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I')
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        t)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t:?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I       I,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                at
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /J,l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /),t £,:;..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0,:).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /J(,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  £.?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   t:J(,
       4-Birdl                    J       ~      I ltJ.t              0,() IJJ,t          t                f)                   /)I,      /) /,           ;JI,      /J         !)       t ,M ,M ,,u                      tJ             I}        0              tJ.t     ,J,I.   ao
                                                                                          v
 I     ~Clouds, Dus~ etc
       6-lnsufflc •lo.
       7-Psydlolopcal
                                 /J
                                  (,J
                                  l
                                          I)
                                          t)
                                                 0 J.()
                                                 0
                                          t? t:? tJ.t
                                                        /),C,
                                                                      .C,1 tJ,L
                                                                       /JJ
                                                                      ~A
                                                                              tJ.t
                                                                              l)J
                                                                                           I
                                                                                          I)
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                        tJ
                                                                                                        t)
                                                                                                                      ~
                                                                                                                      I 1..2.r
                                                                                                                      ~
                                                                                                                                ~/,

                                                                                                                                ~;;
                                                                                                                                           ,11.      t).t)
                                                                                                                                           ,J.JJ 11~-~
                                                                                                                                           /)./) /),/)
                                                                                                                                                                    I)
                                                                                                                                                                    ()
                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               CJ
                                                                                                                                                                              /J
                                                                                                                                                                                        I. ,J.t) hJ t?j
                                                                                                                                                                                        t:. ,M /j_l) /JI.
                                                                                                                                                                                         I f.7 ~() £')
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          'J        o'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        £1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  y_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      p l}J. NJ /!.f.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6 37.S c:i.o 37,5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             a.s /.O 1,2,5
       11-Unlulown                    ✓   ()     3 3M M 3/),L                             ?             17 3 37:5 411 37,5                                           E         Cl       fl~?             tJ.1, ~3,3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          • t? I 6,1t)            r .W..2 ,:J./) .J/,1
                                                                                                        p u (),0 a~ t)_/)                                                                                                                                                         ,:1
 I     9-Qthe,


          Total
                                  1       ~      ~ 3(),0 tl.t) 3tJ.t:?

                                7 ..3 /tl 7M j'/),() II()/),
                                                                                          CJ

                                                                                          7             I            I' 557,j J,2,5 /IP, 8
                                                                                                                                                                     r;           I
                                                                                                                                                                                  ?
                                                                                                                                                                                           I    t.o      {'7 6.7

                                                                                                                                                                                       /$" 8'/. i /3.3 1/1)/),          /5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I             /,{
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tP. /)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             P3.2 /,'1. /~(I.


I                                                                                                                                         239


I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                 ,,.,,,,.                         A&       .q,c =-,A,G               ..       - - -    --        -~ ,_ ~ -,f       A1A-       -.4-r,1:,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                     -
                                                                """"e

         EVlluatioa
0-!IIIIDIIII
    1-Asbofwlllical
                               (j
                                J
                                    -
                             S-st:A,,,A,,,,,

                           Cerlain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                       ()
                                       CJ
                                              tJ t1t
                                                     ,,,,. L6ss



                                               I .S72t
                                                            PerCmt


                                                               O.t
                                                                fl{/,
                                                              l')r,
                                                                      /JrJ
                                                                                     L-//J           Set!,::,.A,,,,,
                                                                                                           Pe,Cml
                                                                                                                                    //-ft? seea-•"'.f
                                                                                                                                   Number


                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                         Per Cent

                                                                                                                                                      I SP,1,
                                                                                                                                    t? 0 tJ {ltJ P.rJ ,?./,
                                                                                                                                                                      tl~ S'AP
                                                                                                                                                                                .?/-~/7 S'6(!/'>A,/1S
                                                                                                                                                                                 Number
                                                                             Cerlain Doubtful Total Certain DoubllJI Total tertain Doomlful Total Certain Doubllul Total Certain Doubllul Total Certain Oowlful Toi~
                                                                                                                                                                                         I,
                                                                                                                                                                                         t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                   /J
                                                                                                                                                                                                  0 t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Per Cent

                                                                                                                                                                                                          tJ        at
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   tl.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            drJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            M /J.rJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   {}.P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
    2-Airaall                 ()        I J          t?.t iw.o lm.t                                                                  I I) J L"/JI) t.rJ 1,tit)                           0        0 -~              /11    /).I)   I.I,
                                                                                                                                        t) r, 17.I) rJ,1. ~2
                                       ;;             a otJ ot?                                                                                                                                           0                 tl.tJ IM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
    Hi;,tl'lltnoa.             /.             I)                                                                                    /}                                                   0         0                IJ,,
    4-Binls                    t      /]     0       a         110 tJ.t-                                     I,                    I/   0 0 IJ./ IJ.I ~/)                                 I        J          I 111)(1/)    0.0 /~I)
5-Cloods, Dus~ et~            {)      0      /J       /JI     AO (},t.
                                                                                                       .,     V                     (', I)
                                                                                                                                            ,,,
                                                                                                                                           0 IJ/) /J.O llP                              0          f)     0        /J.t    tJ.t    Rl7
    6-lnsvtli~ 11111.         tJ      ~      t? o,          tJ,t, /)/                           (\                                  (,              I)      to        {).I)      t2t     tJ       0       0        dt       (J.() /J,'7
                                                                                                                                                                       l.o a,
                                  tJ O a                                                                                                           7: 7ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                V
    7-l'sydlolo&ical          C,                            {),(J t7.t-                .I                                           (,      {)                                          0          t?     /)       /J.L     1)1. t),I)
    8--                        D tJ tJ               I)/_ b /Jt M                      \\J                                          0       /;      {) tJ.P           tJ,t /).I          0          tJ    0        rJ.t    tJ.rJ tJ.t,
    !l-0111..                  /.  t? 0 /Y,                   I)()    00                                                            /)      I)      ~ ~p              {),() /J.()       r,         ()      t)      /Jf)     l.t t?i,

I       Toi~                   I        I    2      f"/J/ £P,O /()/),                                                              2        I.? .:L 11pp.()           tJ.f) 1/P~         I         tJ     I l7pat: P.rJ /a?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
         Evaluation
    0-!lllloon
                            /4/ J'E/!0/11,/JJ - .t::' M,/V,/rc<
                                    Number                Per Cent
                                                                                      L
                                                                                  Number
                                                                                               ft)      M1NPrGJ
                                                                                                        PerC01t
                           Certain DDllbtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Oooblful Total

                               2       L,l       7 ILl/l o      t?t J#./)       I/      I I /20 E-'< l-?33
                                                                                                                                    tJv'e~


                                                                                                                                     t
                                                                                                                                         Nudler
                                                                                                                                                  -t,,,,




                                                                                                                                            CJ Cl f:P M l).O
                                                                                                                                                            ,A     ••v-r.!f_.f

                                                                                                                                                               Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                       /,)t,,A A - "'M
                                                                                                                                                                                       Number
                                                                                                                                  eriain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doublfu
                                                                                                                                                                                         0          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,_,,,_ ,;'rAr&P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Per COit
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Total CertJin Dlllbllul Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                           tJ       tJ.p   /).t,   /ltJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                       tJ 0 (J.t ao ·ao
                               ()                       tJJ ()/)                                                                            0 I ///;~ at? /Re:                                      I 10 J'.eft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                             (
    I-Astronomical                     t?     0       t1.                       l,                                                   J                                                                                     3. fl .!.f.,,
    !·Aircraft                 I        t?    I  :LAO M 7A/)                    (J     0         0          tJ.t    /lO tJ.O        I)      0 D I.ti t)IJ /J.L                            I        I      ,2..., .;'.R f f         1 I.
    Hi&hlPhOlOIII.             I       t?      I v.o tJ.o :LJ.O                  I    ,1        I       37,3        ao 37.3         tJ      0 t> t),p tJ.O /J./)                         I',      7       I        /J.t    :11,g   .1'.f
    4-Binls                   t)       I)     /) ,?.() tJ.0 10                 {)     t)         0          ao tJ.I, /)tJ           ?       /)     7 1'1~6 t).t) 1,,q;~                  /)        /)     I        t/0      ~o dO
    5-Clouds. Dust. etc.
    6-lnsuffic.lnft>.
    7-Psychological
    8-Unkno111
                               {)
                               I
                              I,
                              0
                                      0
                                      /)
                                       ;J
                                       0
                                             0
                                              0 0.0 rJ.t ~/J
                                              I 7/J.P j1' ?I'll,

                                              /)
                                                     ,:?.CJ
                                                    o.o
                                                              tJ-0 tJ.I)
                                                               /J.{} 0./J
                                                                               t:)
                                                                                0
                                                                                0
                                                                                I
                                                                                      0
                                                                                       0

                                                                                        ~
                                                                                          {)
                                                                                                0 IJ,t
                                                                                                0           IJ,l
                                                                                                 tJ tJ,1. ltJ tJ,t
                                                                                                  I 33., 0.tJ 33,J
                                                                                                                    t/1)   t2tJ
                                                                                                                    120 l).J?
                                                                                                                                   tJ
                                                                                                                                    ?
                                                                                                                                    ~
                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                            tJ
                                                                                                                                             t)
                                                                                                                                            /)
                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                   0 t?r. ll.o ~.t
                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                    '7     :U.L

                                                                                                                                                     I /If..
                                                                                                                                                            /J.t
                                                                                                                                                                      O.i :;$,6
                                                                                                                                                                      t)/) /).rJ
                                                                                                                                                                      ~I. /lf.3
                                                                                                                                                                                         ;;, 0
                                                                                                                                                                                         q
                                                                                                                                                                                         ;;
                                                                                                                                                                                         :/
                                                                                                                                                                                                  /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                  7
                                                                                                                                                                                                  /)
                                                                                                                                                                                                          t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,? StJ.!f
                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0,0 l.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           tJ.O l?n.l?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   tJI g.g' ?.-ff
                                                                                                                                                                                                          3 I11.,; t?t //.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   at
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
    9-0ther


        Total
                              0

                             s-
                                       /)     t) t!rJ

                                      tJ J lltli?O
                                                               /).I /}.I)

                                                               /2() lt?P.
                                                                                CJ
                                                                               :l.
                                                                                       CJ        0 M 0.0 O,tJ

                                                                                          I 3 lt17 Y3.J //70,                      7
                                                                                                                                       J    0
                                                                                                                                            ;J
                                                                                                                                                    I /lf,-3
                                                                                                                                                    7 /~./
                                                                                                                                                                      /l() /11:-.J


                                                                                                                                                                      M Jt)P, :L-.1
                                                                                                                                                                                          I       t)

                                                                                                                                                                                                  LL
                                                                                                                                                                                                          I       S.i'      /J/J 3. .f

                                                                                                                                                                                                         .u ~u:1. /5'.¢ /Ill.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                   240
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
I
I
I        E'11111tion



I   0-Balloon
    I-Astronomical
    2-Aircrlft
    3-LithlPhenom.


I   4-Birds



    7-Psydloloaical


I   &-Unluro•



        Total


I
                                               //o                                              LJc,, "A                                             ~1/5-? "AL ,A


I        Evaluation
    0-Batloon
                                      Number              Per Cent                Number                Pe, Cent
                           Certain DOlrbtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Drxrbtful Total
                               ?            /5 /, I 1.(} /.J'./
                                         ,, ~5
                                          f                     /J                          I         I     IUJ ~/J ✓-~
                                                                                                                                                Nuntier                Pe, Cent                Number                Per Cent
                                                                                                                                          ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain lloubtfu Total Certain Omblful Total


    I-Astronomical           If                          ~/.~
                                                      116,?     1.,/              ~             I     fr {$,IJ dJJ f1.v                                                   I


I   2•Aircraft
    3-Liat,t Pllenom.
    4-Birds
                             ,t/

                             ..
                              /
                                       II?
                                         /J
                                         /)
                                               1¢

                                                 €'
                                                   "'" ~7 12.:2
                                                 I JJ 9 12.IJ IJ.; Cl
                                                       d. J     /) /,   1/~
                                                                                 /}


                                                                                 I?
                                                                                            ,;,

                                                                                            ,,/J
                                                                                                      1 tl. tJ .t? /) 1/v
                                                                                                     & tl,O /J /) /J. t)
                                                                                                     /J / ) , , / )   IJ, tJ
                                                                                                                          /)
                                                                                                                                                                    ' l
                                                                                                                                                                          v,
                                                                                                                                                                          V


    5-Cloud~ Dus~ et~        g                  ,J     :;1.t,   t), t:, 1',1,                        tl /) t} ,, 0 tJ. tJ                                  I\
                                         /J
                                                                                  ,,,
                                                                                 /}         I?

I   6-lnsuHic.lnlo.
    7-Psychological
    &-Unknown
                              ,t/
                              0
                            9,1
                                         /)

                                         tl
                                         tl
                                                d

                                               J'2,
                                                                t),/,
                                                ,, de! IJ.tJ J'.5tJ
                                                       ?~


                                                       2'1~ CtJ 2:n
                                                                        /,l      I?
                                                                                 .I£
                                                                                           Cl
                                                                                           ,?

                                                                                            /J
                                                                                                      5 ,,,,, ,,;
                                                                                                      /J
                                                                                                      (I
                                                                                                            ,? /l

                                                                                                           ;,;_/.
                                                                                                                        /1 /J ,1/),:

                                                                                                                        .12;;, /20
                                                                                                                        ,7,/4 1£,C,
                                                                                                                                                    ~
                                                                                                                                                     \      \J


                                         (/                                                          tJ                         a_,,
I
    9--0ther                /?.                //,    117.4 J',< /?~             /J         tl              ,J /.       1?./J

        Total              1;,         2'f 115' 'flt 25'.1- la?.                //,,       tj       1!5 £{, ?£ tJ It)(),




I
          Evaluation


I   0-Balloon
    1-Astronomical
    2-Aircraft
    3-Liat,tf'lln,ar,


I   6-lnsuffic.lnfo.



I
    7-Psychoto1ical
    8-UnknoMI
    9-0ther




I
        Total




                                                11<1 IP                                     Ac4,           ,.                                      ,f,,             ~At:_1"1


I         Evaluation
    0-Balloon
                                   Number                Per Cent
                           C.rtlin Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                              ,f         5     ;£,     u §.I. If.~
                                                                                        Number               Per Cent
                                                                                ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                  I,?           I     I /J,, //,f ¢.1
                                                                                                                                                 Nu-                   Per Cent                Number              Per Cent
                                                                                                                                          ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Drxrblful Total coin Doubtful Total


    1-Astronomical          /2,          5     ;7 1.1.~ ;; I. 19,;                /,.       I        -t'n1. d.'7 .J~~

I   2-Aircraft
    3-Lii)ll Ph.,,m.
    4-Birds
                              .I

                              ~.
                                  I
                                        ,,, ,~
                                        0
                                        I)
                                                  I/,:; II 1. l!i".?
                                                 I 1./
                                                 ,1 /) /J
                                                L,
                                                                ,1 JJ    II
                                                                         ?.t
                                                                                 JJ
                                                                                 t?
                                                                                  tl
                                                                                           d
                                                                                           tJ
                                                                                           ~
                                                                                                     d tJ.t? !?ti !?. tl
                                                                                                     /J tJ./J
                                                                                                      /.? ;J,1
                                                                                                                        (}.,J ().(J
                                                                                                                        12/J /)/)                               \
                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                      '{/

    5-Clouds, Oust. etc.      I          CJ      It. I JJtJ II                    /J       tJ        t) /J,/'. 0.tJ ,w                                          \~

I   6-tnsuffi~ Info.
    7-PsydlolopCII
                              d
                              tJ
                                         /J
                                         ~      "
                                                 4,; /)/] .I/,;
                                              (7 tJ./J tJ tJ
                                                              ,,,._,
                                                                                  5
                                                                                 ,?
                                                                                           ✓,,

                                                                                          t?
                                                                                                      5" 1.1.J at1 :Ztf
                                                                                                     tJ ao l).t) 120                                \ r-;
                                                                                                                                                          t'\
    &-Unkno•               2,/4          Cl .2t,
                                         $,
                                                 1111, (JIJ
                                               /it, 1/.2
                                                             :Zf.1
                                                                ~-1
                                                                                 ~        CJ
                                                                                          ,?
                                                                                                     ,/ ;?.t:, r? /) 1?,?
                                                                                                                        /),,    ,,   /)            "'
I
    !l-01111'               ,,7                                         l.f.U     ,7                 /.?        /)/'.



        Total               I, 1 U, i'Y ,f.t:_, 2</1 IM                         I~         .,       $/     '77.4 I.ft' t, 111,1?,


I                                                                                                                   241

I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
     Evaluation
0-Balloon
l•Aslltln:imical
2-Aircraft


4-Birds


6-lnsuffic. ~fo.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
7-Psydlolo&ical


9,Qtt,e,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
    Tobi

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                       /?,.,._,,,,, _,,

     Evaluation
0-Balloon                1
                             Number


                                .i'
                                     4-


                                       1/J
                                                   Per Cent

                                                                         /)
                                                                           Number
                                                                                 /J-"1",a



                                                                                           /
                                                                                                 PerCffll
                     Certain Ooobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                              4. .$ 4.tJ !11..1                I                 /)/)     ,r,/J    s:o
                                                                                                                                  NWliler               Per Cent               Number               PerC8lt
                                                                                                                           ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtlul Total Ce,tin Doubtfu Total Certain Doubtful Total   I
                                             ,,,,,
                        ·9

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
1-Astrvnomical                  j     /.2             .H,, IL.tl        §"     I       ~       IA,--,,
                                                                                                 !>./J f/?/j
2-Aircraft             'd       '7     II    SI        "f 1(/ I.        /.)    (/      u ,, /l 4/J./. 411                                        I,
3-Li&hll'benoer.        I       /J      I     /.f     /J, /J I..!        /J    /J      ,,, /J,tJ tJJ, l2tl                                       V
4-Birds                 '7      ,,, 2. ?,7            /J/,
                                                  '7."f                  /J    ,,,      /'.     ':,,      ,1, tJ   /? /J
                                                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                                             "
                                 ,,, I /.?
S-Clouds, Dus~ et~
6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
7-Psycholo1ical
&-Unknown            2q
                        I
                       ,I
                        I?
                                /J
                                             /J /)
                                                  /.J
                                ,,, d 5. f /.?,., r: .1
                                /J      CJ
                                                       , , /l



                                                     /J /) C),,,
                                      HI fl? /j tJ. /) ,f/_/j
                                                                         /J
                                                                        ,,_-
                                                                        /J
                                                                        d
                                                                                /)
                                                                               /)


                                                                               /1

                                                                               /J    ~
                                                                                       /, /J.tJ tJ.tJ /)/)
                                                                                      s ,,,,,./, tJ./J .?5.o
                                                                                      /J        ~o tJ.tJ CJ.t)
                                                                                               1,?./J /2/J Mtl
                                                                                                                                  ~
                                                                                                                                  \'
                                                                                                                                        ,_
                                                                                                                                        (J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                               ,,,
9-0ther


    Total
                       R'

                     L.{J     /5
                                ,J    1/J //}.,


                                      'ft,
                                                      '7."f Jill


                                             1',?.1' ~tJ. /,
                                                                        /J

                                                                ,,.,,., /ti    6
                                                                                      /J        '1/,



                                                                                     '7t) 1.-,,, ✓,
                                                                                                         {J.t} I /JC)


                                                                                                         ..tao /Ot:J.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                    242
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
I
I
I         Evalution



I   0-Balloon
    I-Astronomical


    3-Liat,IPhSIOffl,


I   6-lnsuffic.tnfo.
    7-Psycllolo~cal


I   8-Unlulo.,



         Total


I
                                           Men         A                                            J./A


I         Evaluation
    0-Batlooo.
                                     Number                     Per Cent                   Number      Pe< COIi                Nuntier               Per Cent                Number
                           Certain Dobbtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total ~•rtain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu
                              ~            tJ    1- IU            tJ/J lf..J          ?            I       I/ N              f.1 It,~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PerC01t
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Total Certain Dooblful Total


    I-Astronomical             /        2-       .? i,1 lf.5 ,W/,                    4         ~           /5 d~           21. tJ <fl.9

I   2 Aircratt
     4




    Hiat,tPh010m.
    4-Birds
                              ,?

                              /
                              0        0
                                         I
                                        ,tl
                                                  I 12,:J
                                                  /
                                                 £)
                                                       ;., 1'
                                                       tJ.tl
                                                              ,t.?  /_rl


                                                                   nn t..J
                                                                  /)/)     /J(J
                                                                                      /
                                                                                     ,?

                                                                                     /J
                                                                                               ?
                                                                                               /,)

                                                                                              //
                                                                                                           .7

                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                            CJ
                                                                                                                 :u
                                                                                                                 /J/J

                                                                                                                 f?JJ
                                                                                                                            /..I,
                                                                                                                           /)_/J
                                                                                                                            /7,/J a o
                                                                                                                                      i1.'1
                                                                                                                                      /J(J


    5-Clouds. Dus~ etc.       tJ       tJ        /,)   /) tJ /! ,1 /) /J             ,?        /            I    l?/J        ?. ? .?. 2.

I   6-lnsutfic.lnfo.
    7-Psychological
    8-Unknown
                              2.
                              ,/,J

                              u
                                        tJ
                                       CJ
                                        ,t;J
                                                 :l l.f.f
                                                 /J
                                                 ,:,
                                                       tJ.tJ /J,/J
                                                       ~C)
                                                                  i'J t?   If.!
                                                                           t? t?
                                                                 /)_ tJ dt1.o
                                                                                     £,
                                                                                     t?
                                                                                     &
                                                                                                /J
                                                                                               /,)

                                                                                              L7
                                                                                                           2, It.,,;-
                                                                                                           ,:,   /J/J
                                                                                                                            /J,(J l,{5"
                                                                                                                            tl.tJ
                                                                                                           ,., d.d '< /J Jllq
                                                                                                                                      tJ. (J

    9-0ther                   /J                 /J    /1/J       0.0 ao             it_       tJ                I..,;

I
                                        ,?                                                                 '2,               '1/l 6,5


         Total             IZ           :I IS- Mt,~ l,M.                           Ii'      If ,g; 5"%.! Id!.? '1tJ/J,



I
          Evaluation


I   0-Batloon
    I-Astronomical


    3-Liat,t Ph010m.


I   4--Birds


    6-/nsuffic. lnfo.
    7-Psychological


I   8-Unknown
    9-0ther




I
         Total




                                            M1:r1",.,                                               ,t.1,,,,,1,,11


I         Evaluation
    0-Balloon
                                     Number              PerCmt
                           Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total

                               I         (}       l t f tl.t? f,5
                                                                                           Number               Per Cent
                                                                                   ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                    .;,         I  ti /t!tJ ?! lf.5
                                                                                                                                                     Number               Per Cent                 Number                Per Cent
                                                                                                                                               ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tot~


    1-Astronomical             I        ,:1,     ..!   51.1 /1,,1 15.J;             d          9  15 l1J.J -rt?l'J lff.1

I   2-AircraH
    3-Liat,t Ph810m,
    4-Birds
                              /J
                               /
                              tJ
                                        /,)

                                        0
                                           I       I {J.17 ~J f..J
                                                   / 1J 120 f..1
                                                  tJ /J/J /J tJ /lt}
                                                                                     I
                                                                                     /J
                                                                                     /)
                                                                                              2,
                                                                                              L'J
                                                                                               /J
                                                                                                    ? I.J /,,, '1 '✓'t"
                                                                                                   /,) /)/) /J./J

                                                                                                           /)
                                                                                                                    ~/J
                                                                                                                 /'};;     t?/l       j'}/J
    5-Clouds, Dust, etc.      tJ        0        tJ    00   O.o /JO                  I?        /            I tJ.tJ .?. l              ?...!

I   6-lnsuHic. lnkl.
    7-PsydlOlorical
    8-Unknown
                              ,J,
                              0
                              d
                                        /J
                                        0
                                        0
                                                 :Z, 16. 1 /J.O II.. 7
                                                 t9 (l. tJ tJ. /J 0 t?
                                                 d ,ff! .-1.tJ 5'.1..J              5
                                                                                     ~-
                                                                                     tJ
                                                                                              /)
                                                                                              /7
                                                                                              tJ
                                                                                                           ,t. /.. "/
                                                                                                           tJ    /J. t?
                                                                                                           !f Jt.1
                                                                                                                             '< /J 1.,7
                                                                                                                            t:20 /JO
                                                                                                                                  //., 7
                                                                                                                            /'}_/'}
    t-Othe,                   /'}      /,)       tJ J'J. /') tJ.iJ tJ.tJ            ,t.,      /,)           ?.   .t., "}     /),?  /..7

I        Total                f        3        ;2,, 1t;.tJ 26.{) voo.             11        15 ..10 5'~7 4.J'.3 /(Jt},



I                                                                                                                     243


I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
       EYlluatiao


  h\sbanamical
  2-Alraaft
  3-Li&l>IPhenom.
  4-Birds


• l>lnsullic. Info,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
  7-Psycbological
  8-UnknaMI
  9--0ther
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
      Total

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                       .
                                 -                                                                                               - -
                                                                                              ,,

       Evaluation
  0-llllioon
                       Certain

                           I
                                      Mcr;t'tJ
                                 Number


                                     tJ
                                                          Per Cent


                                                 I 11'.'.! /11'7 ff.J         .J'
                                                                                   Nu-
                                            I Tomi Certain Doul>tlu I Tomi Certain Domtlul Total Certain 11111bllm Tot.al Certain
                                                                                          I
                                                                                                        PerCa,t

                                                                                                   I.I. ,q.,. ,ft 1¢.f
                                                                                                                                  Number
                                                                                                                                        I Tomi Certain
                                                                                                                                                       Per Call
                                                                                                                                                                  Tot.al Certain   ......
                                                                                                                                                                                   Naber                  PerC.t
                                                                                                                                                                                            Tot.al Certain Dolllllal Tot.al
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
  l•Astronomical
  2-Airaaft
  3-Li&l>tf'henom.
                          /

                          /J
                          /
                                    ,?,
                                     I
                                    tJ
                                                1 5.J /£.1 25."1,

                                                I
                                                 I    /I/.   (?

                                                     ~1 /J /} J?.1
                                                                  .J   !7 ~
                                                                               .1'
                                                                                 I
                                                                                /.
                                                                                      ~
                                                                                       f

                                                                                      ,?
                                                                                                   ,I ,,,_ 7 ?fl.t ff.J
                                                                                                   J    .J'.t
                                                                                                   01/J/J
                                                                                                                 '/ I /tJ.J
                                                                                                                ,? /J   /J..6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
  4-Birds                  /}       /J          /J   Ou IJ.0 Oo                /J     c?            0 I /J /J   0/J I.,?,,
                                                ,,
  5-Clouds,Dust,etc.
  6-lnsullic. lnlo.
  7-Psycbological
                          /J

                          0
                           ,t,
                                   I)
                                     /J
                                    tJ
                                                /J
                                                      /)/)

                                                ?, I/L 1
                                                      t?I.
                                                             /J,,
                                                             0/'J 47
                                                             /}/} 11'7,::?
                                                             ,, ,, ~!j'
                                                                       ~/)     l'7
                                                                               ~
                                                                               /J
                                                                                       I
                                                                                       tJ
                                                                                      ,?
                                                                                                    I 1'7.0
                                                                                                   2, 't I
                                                                                                   12 I/J./J
                                                                                                                .1t 1t
                                                                                                                /J.O     '?/
                                                                                                                /?./J l.o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
  6-Unkno'"'             L                     d     ff~                       ,:;    §            ~ 111.'9 /?.1'7      1-t 9
                                   ,..,/J
  9--0ther


      Tot.al
                          /J


                           tj
                                                /l   /J/J

                                   .1' 1£ lgei 25:tl /tl/J,
                                                             /J.O lo.O         £,

                                                                              It.
                                                                                     tJ            ~    7./ /J /)

                                                                                     ;'2, ~ f I-"'!'/ 4f.1 ta?.
                                                                                                                         ti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                            244
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
I
I
I        Evaluation


I   0-Balloon
    l·Astnmomical
    2-Aircraft
    3-Liaht Phinom.


I   4•Birds


    f>lnsUffic. Info.



I   ·-
    7-l'lydlololical


    !I-Other

        Total


I
I                            Evaluation
                        0-Balloon
                        1-Astmnomical


I                       2•Aircrafl·
                        3-LiahlPhenom.
                        4-Binls



I                       6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
                        7-Psychological
                        8-UnknoMI



I
                        !I-Other


                            Total




I
                             Evaluation


I                       0-Balloon
                        I-Astronomical
                        2-Aircraft



I
                        3-LiafllPh"'°m.
                        ,4.Birds
                        5-Clouds, Oust. etc.
                        6-lnsuffic.lnfo.



I                       7-Psycholoaical
                        II-Unknown
                        9-0ther




I                           Total




I                            Evaluation
                        0-Balloon
                        I-Astronomical


I                       2-Aircraft
                        3-Liat,IPhenom.
                        4•Birds



I
                        ~Clouds,Ou!lt.etc.
                        r.tnsuffic. Info.
                        7-Psychololical
                        II-Unknown



I
                        9-0the,


                           Total




I                                              245

I
                                                  I
                                                  I
                                                  I
     Evaluation
0-Balloon
1-Astlonomlcal
                                                  I
I-Aircraft
3-Ll&lilPho»m.
I-Birds
$-Clouds, Dust, et~
                                                  I
6-lnsufll~llfo.
7-Psydlllolicol
8-Umo•
9-01ller
                                                  I
   Total
                                                  I
                           Evaluation
                                                  I
                      0-Batloon
                      I-Astronomical
                      2-Airaaft
                      3-Liallll'IIOllm.
                                                  I
                                                  I
                      I-Birds
                      5-Clouds, Dust, el~
                      6-insuffi~ ~ro.
                      7-Psydlololical



                                                  I
                      8-Unlolo,.,
                      9-0ther


                         Total



                                                  I
                           Evaluation
                      0-Batioon
                      1-AsbuoomicaJ
                                                  I
                                                  I
                      !-Aircraft
                      3-Liallll'IIIIIOII.
                      4-Birds
                      5-Clouds, Dost, el~
                      6-lnsuffic. Info.
                      7-Psydiololical
                      8-Unlolo,.,
                      9-0ther
                                                  I
                          Total
                                                  I
                           Evaluatian
                                                  I
                      0-Balloon
                      l-Astrono111ical
                      2-Airc,aft •
                      3-Li&lil Ph-.
                                                  I
                      &-lnsufli~ aro.
                      7-Psydlllo&i<II
                                                  I
                                                  I
                      8--
                      9-0lher


                         Total




                                            246
                                                  I
                                                  I
I
I
I       Evaluation


I   0-Billoon
    I-Astronomical
    2-Alrctaft
    3-Liaf,IPha,om.


I   4-Blrds
    5-CIOClds, Dus~ etc.
    6-lnsufflc. ~fo.
    7-Psychololical


I   a.-
    ~Iller


       Total

I
I                               Evaluation
                           0-Batloon
                           l•AstJonomlcal

I                          2-Aircratt
                           3-Liafl!Pha,om.
                           4-Blrds



I                          6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
                           7-Psycoolojical
                           8-UnknoMI



I                          ~Iller


                              Total




I
I
                                Evaluation
                           0-Batloon
                           1-Asbonomlcal
                           2•ilrcratt



I                          3-LlafllPha,om.
                           4-Blrds
                           5-Clouds, Du~ ate.
                           6-lnsufflc.blfo.


I                          ~Psycoolo1lcal
                           I-Unknown
                           ~Iller




I                             Total




I                               Evaluation
                           0-Balloon



I
                           1-Astmnomlcal
                           2-Aircrlft
                           3-Llafll Phanom.
                           4•Birds



I                          6-lnsufflc. Info.
                           7-Psyitolopcal
                           I-Unknown


I                          9-0lh"


                              Total




I                                               247

I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                     UBL£ ,{223

                               IYEw
                             Number
                                                   (',,,p,r

                                                   Per Cent                  Number
                                                                                                UAdd/~ l'Tt,,A'C

                                                                                                   Percent
                                                                                                                                           OG#T//1/65

                                                                                                                                                     /,/,?sh' //IIG Tl"•
                                                                                                                                                  Number                Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                        5T,f/l TEG IC'

                                                                                                                                                                                                b/lt,9/l'CI:
                                                                                                                                                                                                Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Jr-    {t; ,1,//7,?t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Er?sr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
     Evaluation      Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total it:ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total                         ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tot~
0-Ballooo              /t           ?       25'         t?,/J     5:/ l«I             tJ        /4      15 lt?7     "/. I ,--;~              !9       l.t    J'/tJ.c? 5:'7 /,/1                    ,(    1:Z    fo       -1-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ·'      //}_ '1 /,f.2,
l•Astronomical                                                                                              //I/ //. I/ i5.x                          I/                                                                               ✓,;
2-Aircraft
                       -7,!J
                      53          "
                                /1!,
                                            4/.      II, :2,      ?,d /I.( L,
                                            65" fff.,f 1...7 ..ft.Ii
                                                                                    1/J
                                                                                   /(/
                                                                                             It)

                                                                                             /CJ
                                                                                                       ?t}
                                                                                                      .:2¢' It. 7 //. 9 ffg'_I,,           B
                                                                                                                                            ///)             /I/CJ 5:Z ?d:2,
                                                                                                                                                              ",/

                                                                                                                                                     :?7 §t? Ii.CJ 12-9 2J'll
                                                                                                                                                                                                  '/4
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ;tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                          ~

                                                                                                                                                                                                         16
                                                                                                                                                                                                               ;i I
                                                                                                                                                                                                               .!'t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .1,:../,:;

                                                                                                                                                                                                                          fJ  I 14'. 5" i'J' /.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               /?/J

3-Ligtrt Phenom.
4-Birds
5-Clouds, Dus~ el~
6-tnsuffl~ Info.
                         f'.
                        /.l
                       /J
                                  I
                                  0
                                 /)
                                             .5' I/ " / /.7
                                             tJ 17,/J f?/J t?.,:? ?L
                                             0 ;J.tJ !'Jtfl tUJ /J
                                                                      /                       I?
                                                                                              tJ
                                                                                              /J
                                                                                                        I

                                                                                                         /J
                                                                                                             /? t?.CJ /.£
                                                                                                        ¢' ✓.f
                                                                                                                tJ./.?
                                                                                                                ;?,,;,
                                                                                                                          ;;7,t}
                                                                                                                          ///)
                                                                                                                                   i{g
                                                                                                                                   /J/.?
                                                                                                                                             tl
                                                                                                                                             /
                                                                                                                                            tJ
                                                                                                                                                      1!-
                                                                                                                                                       I?
                                                                                                                                                       ff
                                                                                                                                                      tJ
                                                                                                                                                          2. J7 /, /. tJ /17
                                                                                                                                                           / ;'J,; cJ.C, t?.5
                                                                                                                                                          % /J /) 5% 5.i
                                                                                                                                                                       ~i tltJ .,.t.
                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                  t?
                                                                                                                                                                                                  tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                         5"
                                                                                                                                                                                                         tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                         /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /J. (j
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1/.C ,11' c?o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 / .':C /J'l d.?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .;/,; 5.11



                                                                                                                                                                                                                !cJ tJ, /J., tJ 91
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                      fl/                  .:ZI II.A' /}/) /Of       f'.                      t}        ~                 t?.IJ i',,;t      II                 //                                        cJ
                                 tJ
                                             ,.,                                                                                                                                                 ltl
7-Psychological
&-Unlmo..
9-0lher
                      26
                        "7


                       5'
                                 /)

                                 /)
                                 /)          £,
                                                 .?.9 //11 f9
                                            26 ;,/.I.. /J/J /¢1.. 15'
                                                      -?. J(     ///)
                                                                      I

                                                                           ,t.(l    .z
                                                                                              17
                                                                                              tJ
                                                                                                /.?      I      1:2.-     /,)_ tJ /-?.
                                                                                                      15 l'/'tl tJ_,,:, 17':Y
                                                                                                       .i, 4_// t'J. t} ?,/L
                                                                                                                                             /)

                                                                                                                                           5"J'
                                                                                                                                               ,;,
                                                                                                                                                       /1
                                                                                                                                                      17
                                                                                                                                                      t?       g
                                                                                                                                                                17     /J/J
                                                                                                                                                                        t?cJ tJc?

                                                                                                                                                                        /'I (l.tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                  /1
                                                                                                                                                             55 ?,,;:? /J.o 2;1. If
                                                                                                                                                                                       /.II       J'
                                                                                                                                                                                                         .J'
                                                                                                                                                                                                         /)

                                                                                                                                                                                                         L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3' ///J :J.7 ,t 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                               / f ,;,,/ tJJ) //,.-£
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5 2 '1 1.f ,:I ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
   Total             ISCJ


                     U.i?E
                               2f?          /'fl< l<fff



                                           ,f £2    i
                                                                 15'1' /a?         ,;-jf'



                                                                          E///IU/,£[1/JIJ/
                                                                                            4/        Jf'4 /.?p J//J I,?/?

                                                                                                               tJE         ALL
                                                                                                                                           ISJJ      ~tJ :21,(J "I/Ii :zt. I, IC'?'

                                                                                                                                                                               II(    Tb'E
                                                                                                                                                                                                 /_/.   4✓ 1/C' 160,,:: drl.lJ l,;'v_


                                                                                                                                                                                                        5V'!1T£D(                       c1RE,£S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                           ,f'£G/tllll



     Evaluation
                                /.CJ
                             Number
                                            -',4,:n
                                                   Per Cent                Numbe,
                                                                                                 1),,,,,,.,..,,,.,
                                                                                                 Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                                                           ,11(,;,_,,,,,,,<C /JF ,I:
                                                                                                                                               Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                       '=""L M,01uEs1
                                                                                                                                                                       Number
                     Certain Do,btful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total certain Doubtful Total Certain Ooubtful Total Certain 0ou,tfu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PerCmt
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Total Certain Doubtful Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
0-Balloon               .2        5'          ?    ~-3 5.'7 ,l[tJ ,V                             1 .fo 1/.:Z 4% 1£.0                         II.     11/      -<''7     'f;ff ,IJ_i_ I /4f tJ
I-Astronomical
2-Aircraft
3-Light PhEIIOm.
                      %)
                       I/
                       tJ
                                  f?
                                    j'
                                    I
                                            ~5 I-??_;;

                                              I
                                                         9.1 .Y/.:J ?'7
                                             fl1 1/1'. 6 f l ?I_!, 21
                                                      tJ.CJ       /I       I.I      &,
                                                                                             ii'
                                                                                            ?3
                                                                                                4"
                                                                                                       55 d.7 ?. I, 2f.f
                                                                                                       L/d II. t, lf:Z H.¥
                                                                                                        It?     1:2        ?./ ,; ;'
                                                                                                                                            N
                                                                                                                                            /.l
                                                                                                                                              s-
                                                                                                                                                     /tJ
                                                                                                                                                      M
                                                                                                                                                       f'
                                                                                                                                                             1'9
                                                                                                                                                             _z..1
                                                                                                                                                               .!
                                                                                                                                                                        4.? 23. 9
                                                                                                                                                                       dJ/J

                                                                                                                                                                  1,.3 4. 9 //.2-
                                                                                                                                                                  ?.4' l.t, J'.?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
4-Birds                I          /)          /       &tJ //
                                                      //                             /        ,,;J        I     /'J.5'    /)/)     1'7.b        I      :z,     J'      I. tJ I. 5'
                                                                                                                                                                       ""'"
5-Clouds,Du~et~
6-lnsuffic.lnfu.
7-Psycllological
                       l'7
                      II
                       5
                                 t?
                                CJ
                                 /J
                                             tJ t?.tJ Cl./) acJ
                                             II IJl.5 ;J,tJ 12'.5
                                             .; 5,'1 17. tJ 5. 7
                                                                                     ;J

                                                                                   -?/1
                                                                                     1!,,
                                                                                                 /J
                                                                                                tJ
                                                                                                17
                                                                                                          o /J.o
                                                                                                       ,£0 J/J /.
                                                                                                          2-     I.I
                                                                                                                           ,?/)
                                                                                                                                    a /l tJ
                                                                                                                          (l. tJ 11</. ..J'/
                                                                                                                          /JI'? I./ 5
                                                                                                                                                       tJ
                                                                                                                                                        tJ
                                                                                                                                                       17
                                                                                                                                                               0 J7.(} tJ.tJ /J.o
                                                                                                                                                               <'I

                                                                                                                                                               -~
                                                                                                                                                                           /'J.O 151
                                                                                                                                                                       /5, /
                                                                                                                                                                    .?.I/- /J 17 24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
8-Unknown             /2,,       (}         /~ l.f'{.            17_,-; IJ'.t.     Ix'          /)      If?     ?£        17,/J l?,;, 4//             cJ     (/'¢ 11/!i /J,/J 21.;;
9-0ther


   Total
                       d

                      ~{,
                                t:?          d       4,;-         t?t:? {/1,         I.       £,          J[    11         I. I 41 5

                               L.Z ff$ '7',;_p :f_t;,p 1/VJ II.ft- 5t !ff$' IH"'.t, ?9.i It%! 11,;-<? d;: :ZCJ"'{ '11? ?f ¥ /a{
                                                                                                                                                       0        ,:; 2.11 ;JC} 2.1/-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                               SAN                 -Per Cent
                                                                      ~
                                                                          ,,,~
                                                                            Number
                                                                                   "·
                                                                                         r/7£                  "FAlrR/lL
                                                                                                - ,:;,,- t"E"""'"""'' llRw£s1
                                                                                                                                            S/Ch"T//YGS
                                                                                                                                            P,AdWGSf

                                                                                                                                               Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                         lf'E6'1CJIY'

                                                                                                                                                                       Number                                               PerCmt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                             Number                                                               Per Cent               Number
     Evaluation
0-Balloon
l•Astronomical
                     Certain DOIJbtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tot~ Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Ooul.ltfu
                       1f?
                       I/
                                      f?
                                 .3' 14
                                             ?I.        // n
                                                        I?. ff
                                                                  '7.I t'.1./
                                                                  2-'7 /t.!i
                                                                                     ?,

                                                                                     G'       .5'
                                                                                                 t,        f
                                                                                                          ;J
                                                                                                                  II. I ;,/.g'
                                                                                                                 _;?'f'
                                                                                                                1/..1
                                                                                                                   5./, It/ 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Total Certain Doubtful Total

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
2~Aircraft            17        //          ? !?     1;.t         a       t5.C7      Q      1.t,       ?./ //._ 7 22.2 J'ff 9
3-LightPhenom.
4-Binls
5-Clouds, Ou~ et~
                       tJ
                       tJ
                        /)
                                0
                                 CJ


                                 /J
                                             l'7
                                             /)
                                             /}
                                                      tJ.tJ atJ Cl.O
                                                      /J.0 tJ.tJ tJ.tJ
                                                      r?.tJ Cl.I'? t2tJ
                                                                                     I
                                                                                     tJ
                                                                                     tJ
                                                                                              /)
                                                                                                Cl.

                                                                                                I
                                                                                                        I J.I} o.r7 /. 9
                                                                                                        t:J
                                                                                                          I tJ.o
                                                                                                                tJ.O      /1 /',
                                                                                                                          J.   ? 1?
                                                                                                                                   o.'o                                                                                                                 I
6-lnsuffic. Info.     16        tJ          II..      ;LI_;       /J/J    1/...1    !?          /J       g /,/fl          IJ.tJ ;df
7-Psyct,ological
&-Unknown
9-0ther
                        I
                      Z2-
                         /
                                J',
                                 0
                                 :i,
                                             ..1
                                            ?,J

                                             ..1
                                                      /J.9
                                                     1U
                                                      /J.9
                                                                  J.fi

                                                                  tJO ;ft,
                                                                 I i 2.1
                                                                           2,J      /)

                                                                                     &
                                                                                      I
                                                                                              cJ
                                                                                              rJ
                                                                                                t:J      t? l'J. I,
                                                                                                         h Ill
                                                                                                          I     J.'1
                                                                                                                          ;J_ cJ 17. CJ
                                                                                                                          CJ./}
                                                                                                                          /) /)
                                                                                                                                   II. I
                                                                                                                                    /. 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
   Total              g't,      :?/.       /Ii '71,.1 £ft. I/CJ,::?                .J'!,    ,£:2.-    .5-7 5?..! 4C).7 lt'tJ.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                       248
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
I
I
I        Evaluation


I   0-Ball"'°
    I-Astronomical
    2-Aircraft
    3-Ligll!Ph010m.


I   4-Birds


    6-lnsuffi~ lolo.
    7-Psydlological


I   &-Unknown
    9-0lller


        Total


I                                           4211                       £/r,4L(/AT7(2,(/                       ff        !{Lt.            f/6b'T(lfGS               I&'.   :ti'it::    .Sr,f'#Tc'GtC

                                  ,;9~.       -             -
I
                                                     ~
                                                                                  A'AL"•·•~        /1P        ~---,,        I lh-

                                   Number               Per Cent                Number                  Per Cent                                Number                Per Cent                Nuober               Per Call
         Evaluation       Certain Ooubtlul Tolal Certain Doubtful Total Certain Ool.d>tful Tolal Certain Doubtful Total                 ertain lloubtlul Tolal Certain Ooubllul Total Certain Ooubtfu Total Certain Doubtful Total
    0-Balloon              /$,        5      ,'/ S.7 2.¢ ff/                       11£     5 .J'/ !¥ff ~:! 1'(I,
    1-Astnmaical                             fl I li?.,:J '7<7/.. Ifft                    22. /Ir- 1.J.1 /:t-.5 26:~

I
                           1/       ,I,/)                                         -?'-1
    2-Airaaft               II       If      VJ 5:Z,        9 /) 141               15     l.f     :2! ~,;             -?:LI /5:9
    3-Li&ill Pllaiom.        /}       /)      /)     /)/.       rJ.tJ /{/',         :z,    2,      4 I. I              /. I :z_,z
    4-Binls                  /}       I       I      /J/J       /JC'    /JC        /)       /      I tJ.tJ            t?t- tJ,/.
                                             _,,


I
    5-Clouds, Dust, et~      ~       t:J            ~-//-       tJ.O £.I/          /}      ?,      2.. tJ.tl            II I I
    6-lnsuffi~ mlo.         /I,       /}     ;t, ?'/4           llt?    1'/..     II       /)      I/         1..1     acJ ?.:2
    7-Psychological          /}       /J     0  /,J/J           at? / ) / }        tJ      /J      t?         /J /)     tJ.t tJ.tJ
    8-Unknown             5J         /J     5.f ?;;-,J          '7/J    -2,:-;1, ~/        /)     SI j9_(!             tl.tl iftl


I                                             1                 ~-9 fJ/..
    9--0ther                 I        I.             /J.5                          .J      CJ      f           I.?     /)/.      1.1

        Total             //9       ?/ 2/tJ !,~ 1 //.1.1 l/,:1/)                 171      (15 II?'~ l1d1.1 1~1, /a/



I                                   LPS
                                 Number
                                            il2i
                                                    ~AI.C,tU.E.5
                                                         PerCent
                                                                                 l~,:,,AN,1£
                                                                                  Number
                                                                                                  ,tJ;:- 5,.,,ru h;wt:Sf
                                                                                                       PerCenl                  Nulltler              Per Cent                Number               Per Casi
         Evaluation       Ce!Uin Ollllbtlul Total Certain Ooubtlul Total Certain llomtful Total Certain Doubtful Total t:ertain Ooubtlul Total Cerlain Doubtful Total Certain Ooubtfu Total Certain Ooubllul Tola!


I   0-Balloon
    l·Asbonomical
    2..Aircraft
                           21

                           1¥
                             5
                                     /t}
                                       fl
                                      !,
                                             ?/



                                             d
                                              1-r
                                                    11..1
                                                     ;/f
                                                    12.2
                                                                 h 2VJ
                                                                 -I/]

                                                                41 It.,;
                                                                        1/..!      I
                                                                                   d
                                                                                    I      ~
                                                                                           ..J'
                                                                                            I
                                                                                                   .5' .?.fl

                                                                                                   5
                                                                                                    ✓ ,? i
                                                                                                              JS:4
                                                                                                                     ~'1 1/.5
                                                                                                                   //. 5 15:3
                                                                                                                      ..u1?2


I
    3-liihtl'II.....        ?_        0       2..    1.1        /J. t) 1.1          /       0           /      I.Ji ,,:/fl 11
    4-Binls                  tJ       tJ      0      J?o        "!/J     /J.t?      /1     tJ      tJ '7/.            /) /,     tJ./)
    5-Cloud~ Dust, et~       0         t)     0      tJ.v tlO            /)/.
                                                                                   0        t?     0 J?.t              /} /, /}/)
    6-IBSUffic. Info.        f        /J  !" 1/J /J.tJ 'I tJ                       ti      tJ      4 ,,;:a             /')/')
                                                                                                                                /£id
                                          .f' /. ?' ,n ~~

I                                                                                                   I .f.f
    I-Psychological          2,        I                                            I       CJ                         /? /J ..?.i
    &-Unknown              .fl        tJ .?/ 11t atJ 11/J                          .1       0      .? 1I.S            /J.O /1.5
    9-0ther                 3         0   i 'T/J /J.O 1/J                           /      ¢           ,;--    ?~     15:d /9.2

                                    ,2,t/ 115 ''/~ I 1,/J.9 ,,,,,
I                                                                                                 .£.t; t/.6 M.6 111?/,1
        Total              QI                                                     16      It?




I
I
I
I
I                                                                                                                     249


I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                   A&w
                              Number
                                                    y-,,,,.,,
                                                    Per Cent
                                                                                            #/'"'"' ,t!i'tl"'~
                                                                                           Number                            PerCenl   Number
                                                                                                                                                              /.../LJ.--U

                                                                                                                                                             PerCenl
                                                                                                                                                                                 A/,,-    -r/JA/

                                                                                                                                                                                     Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                llf"'LAl/lrr
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /,7,C   /4    -~4J,   ,C:,,,   I
      Evaluation      Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total               ertaln Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total pertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Tot~
 0-Balloon
 1-Asmmomical
 2-Aircraft
                         II
                        //4
                        ?/
                                    7
                                    /,.
                                    q
                                          /fj
                                          2Z /f'.q.
                                          d/1 l}/L,1
                                                     f{',:;     <a 1.?.9
                                                                <{7 1'1/
                                                                7.,:? 71.t?
                                                                                     q
                                                                                   1/,J

                                                                                   /I/
                                                                                               J{
                                                                                             1/J
                                                                                                  I,      /;,' 11.6
                                                                                                          If 1/f.1 ;,J.? ,;.7. I
                                                                                                         .24 11.' 12d M.7 5'.I
                                                                                                                                '7.7 lf.Z
                                                                                                                                                 31
                                                                                                                                                   1/.
                                                                                                                                                            117

                                                                                                                                                            f'5
                                                                                                                                                                   '7     2!> 9. ✓ 5.J' 11¢'7
                                                                                                                                                                         4/ iff'$ Sf 2-I/
                                                                                                                                                                         LL I. /2.Q p/7 271
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 II.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 //J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ji' /6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5"' 21 11,_5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       rr :z, 8' :2,, It.<-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           "?1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /J 25 /i?.5 I f {I 2J?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ~z               I
• 3-Lii,hl Phenom.       z.         I      .f /.t               dff' f',{i          /         c:J          /                                                  ?,            z iJ.v /. 7, IZ                        /    ..3   </ I(? .?I 4. I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                    /,?        /J /J     /J        /J
 4-Birds                 /'J       /'J     /'J ,o.;;:           /'JI,     ,1/J       ?,           tJ       z       $t.         '111     'l.l.       I         /'J           I     /JI.      /JI} /J, /4           tJ     /}   0   /l/, ~o 00
 6-Clouds, Dus~ et~      /}         0      0        l?.u        tJ.tJ /JtJ          /J            /}       0       /J /)       /)/)     u'tJ       /)          ?.          :?,   t7. t)     /, 1!,      /Z        /')    /       I     {J/'}    /0       /, 1J
 6-lnsuffi~ ~lo.       ,9/J         /}    IJ/}      ;,;;-,;      / / / , 15.4"      z         j'}         z         ?, t.      /}{)     2.t.       I/        /J           I/     1.,5 /,ltJ          /,, ,;      ;/}    tJ      /0 ,/J.J'       t7 tJ it:U
 7-Psydlllogical         '7                          s.-.       l{/J S.¢                                   I       I.J tJ.o                        ;J        tJ           tJ tJ.tJ /J. t) tJ t} tJ                      2,      2,     tl. /}    :t.l Z./

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                   tJ          ?                                     /        0                                         /..l'
 3-Unkno..             ;{!         0      /4 ltN /JtJ il"J't                       IJ'        tJ         /J It.?               /Jc? //..7          IJQ        /J         .?9 22.9 tJ /} 22.9 /p                         tJ      /,S-   '55 tJ.O /.t;':'5
 9-0tt,,,                ,;-       /}      ,:; .J'.'t 00 .J'9                       z         0            t.,      :J.1,,     f'.!/J .2,/,,         ?       tJ           .J' /~            ao
                                                                                                                                                                                           //[  J                       2,       5      .J' I ZJ 52

                                                                                           Fl 'IS ln't J'tU /al vz.z, qf 1170 118' n:z /tJt}, £5 ..?.!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
     Total             //'.,t,    f'.J' 12'1 ~1.i 1'1'! /t}(/                     ,;-;[                                                                                                                                        97 l/44<'9 -7<1 1/J/'

                                          d2.lr2                                                                    ff
                                                                          /1~             :77/E            /!£".       -~,d,0,:_                .AAu,/-h'_::-5/                     Pr(; / / J / ) /




      Evaluation
 0-Batloon
                              Number
                                    ,4U//'A6 /)
                                                    Per Cent


                                                      16
                                                                            Number


                                                                                   f't)
                                                                                                       [),9y7 11 IV
                                                                                                  Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                                                                W-"'L .-9,,,i,ce
                                                                                                                                                Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                        "7,- /. ' ,,~,,,,, h,1,,,,,,le.:I
                                                                                                                                                                        Number
                      Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobllul Total ~ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Douhtfu
                        £,           ,s    7                     /.,Z,    ff:?                 ? .19 1.1.tJ ?. ,;I !VI ;J 17 ?tJ 7. z, '1.4 /t.t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PerC111t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Total Certain Dwbtful Total      I
                                                                                              // ///1 /7,Q 1.:,/4 _2d,1 ?d //} dd l1x'9 S/. 1~,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
  l•Astronomical       //,,         6     2Z lifi                .-,: (/ 272 29
 2-Aircraft             ii          ff    l'l 1.U               f. 9     :JJ'5 l'l          }!2,         ¢1 11-d ;f.Z, •?;,(,;                    /.?       /Cl           -?7     'J!z      S£ 1.2.8'
 3-LightPh810m.          /J         /      /          I'! 11    l,Z,      IZ ,:;                  .,:'    j/J ?;;, :J.d /,,/l                       ,;-       ?,            1     .Z.f? /./ .7.9
 4-Binls                 I         iJ      I         1.t,       tl.tJ /.&            /        /J            I      /J,/4       a tJ /,I/,           I         ;2/          ..?    /J/   /.I /'7
 6-Clouds, Dus~ et~                        tJ I'.? /1 /,//.) j')/.) I?                                                                                                            /J.u tJO tJ.o

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                          /)       /)                                                         /}           /}     a/J Cl.Cl           /J.O !?                 /'J          I?
 6-lnsuffic.lnfo.       //         /}     II  111. tJ.tJ if.I, ,?,1                           /J         "?,/}    1-? I")      /J,/.);,fl_tJ :27              t:? :27 /5.I? ,:!/J 15.u
 I-Psychological         ;;-        /}     K  ,: ?, /J,/.) t.. z,    ?,                       /}            z. /,2.,           /} /) /,:!,    5               /J           s      :7.% t?!?             -? f?
 8-Unknown              //         /}     II (J't: a /J /.?/, l'f                             /J          /7      ''1"'         // 11 //J, 9,     j-:,         /7        .?7     2,7.;:'.   tl,/J    :zJ.t
                        ✓                 d' //q a;:; ,U                                                                                4z                                d                          :z.z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
 9-0ttier                          /)                                               /4        I             7      ?.L tJ.I.                        q'         /}                 2.:z.     /J,/J


     Total             1,./       :7(?    j(/ '15.1 11/.1 10t7.                   pf/)      d-t I/~ 7' 'fl ti ?_f.( /OtJ.                       119         41 lf?O 771 11.1 111111




                              Number
                                    SAA/              HAAI(' 151'/J
                                                    Percent
                                                                         t:?;

                                                                            Numbe,
                                                                                    ??YE
                                                                                                         ff
                                                                                                   {!£A/.,-,,,,:.
                                                                                                                    1//l(f'L
                                                                                                                           C, >,P l,l/i5/
                                                                                  ;t,,, ,,u,,, t'J~ I ,,,r,e111. /i;,e;,,,:.57
                                                                                                  Per Cent                Number                Per Cent                Number
                                                                                                                                                                                     ,?,c-,-,:   /J,V

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PerCmt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Total Certain Dwbtful Total


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
       Evaluation     Certain Doobtfu\ Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtfu
  0-Balloon              IS         ½      ,I}~      /dL   7'fi" 22.4               .z        f            5' 4,,    f /} 1/.7
  I-Astronomical         /tJ        J'     /.l        9.'1 .f. 9 12.i:              ,;            'I                 1/J £. I.
                                                                                                               fl I/./,,
  2-Aircraft             17'        <?'   ?6         IL,.6      1/g -?d..J'          9        5           ;',I IM.9 //.~ M.6


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
  3-Light Phenom.            t?     tJ     t7         /)j        /JI~      /J.O      I        /}            I         /J. /J :2..1
                                                                                                                    1,f{
  4-Birds                    0      /)         /}     /J /)     /.)/.)    /}/)      j'}       /}           0    t1u 0.0 120
 Hlouds, Dus~ et~            I}     /J         I}     /J.r,     au         /1/}     /J            /        I /J /) ?J .2J
 6-lnsuffic.lnfo.       ;i:;        /}    /,{,       ,,,:-,::   l{/J ;5.,;          ff        /J           ff If', t, o.lJ 18'-t
 7-Psychologica!
 3-Unknown
 9-0ther
                       (j/J
                             I


                             I
                                    -?,
                                    0 UJ
                                        .J

                                    g, .J'
                                                      1./J
                                                    l?.d
                                                     1(}
                                                                 I.ti     2.9
                                                                {J,0 19. (t
                                                                1.i? ,;,_,;
                                                                                    /J
                                                                                    .I,
                                                                                     I
                                                                                             tJ
                                                                                             /.J
                                                                                              I}
                                                                                                          tJ
                                                                                                          £
                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                   /J/J tJ,/J
                                                                                                                   1/.I.
                                                                                                                    :7.3
                                                                                                                                        ac
                                                                                                                               /J, I} 11.t
                                                                                                                                IJ/}    :!.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
     Total             ffO        13 10.J 111 2,Z,,.J /00.                        ..SI      ;:Z,         dr 1'.2./ 11. 9 ;(J{J.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                         250                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
I
I
                          111,fL.E               1£2.U.

I
         Evaluation


I   0-Balloon
    1-Asburmical
    2-Aircraft
    Higtrt Phenom.


I   4-Birds
    5-Clouds, Dus~ etc.
    6-lnsvffic.lnlo.
    7-Psydlological


I   &-Unknown
    9-0tlle,


       Total


I                         O'IL-li:               ,£:Zl.J                   £ &L,l/,£Tl(MI
                                                                           /J,C             me
                                                                                                                                                                                     11/c
                                         d, ,Jin, N&"DnnC                                                   ,,,,

I        Evaluation
    0-Balloon
                                      Number            Pe,Cent
                                                                                    //AL~• t~
                                                                                Number                PerCa1t
                                                                                                                     St:J,,.,.,,, We
                                                                                                                              Nual>er               PerCa1t                 Number
                          Certain Doubttul Total Certain Doubttul Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total certain Doubttul Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Dout,Hu

                             5           .?        )i' 14' j! .2.,; l,t.7' 2/4                   ,:/ .J'/J 1£1             ?.ff V,9
                                                                                                                                                                                                              PerCalt
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Total Certain Doubtful Total


    1-A-ical                           :7--,,    5-5 112d :?/.( ~..:: /"7                     1✓                           q_ i' 71. 7

I
                            //.                                                                           -?I      1/'7
    2-Airmft                 q         11?       ;t;      '71.    s?.d //.JJ /4               /$          2'/       f.Jl   ?./ /fl_?
    Hight Phenom.           I}           t7        tJ     n/J     IJ.11 t?. CJ        2,          ?,,  d Id /,d ~-1
    4-Birds                 I)           I         I      /J_/7   IJ. fl A'i'         t:l         I    /     /J_/J t1. 7' 11, 1



I                                                        ib? /J_/J tJ.R'
    5-Clouds, Du~ etc.       I          0          I                                  /7         ~ :Z,       ,I}./, Ml I. <I
    6-lnsuffic. klfo.       ,-;         tJ         ,!.   ,,, IJ   IJ./J 5t?           I/         /J   /I -7,'?' IJ /} '7 '7
    7-Psydlological         /J           IJ       IJ /J. IJ       /J tJ t?.'9         tJ          /)   /J tJ. /J tJ.tJ atJ
    8-UnknoMI              2,;          /)       :25 '11 /)        /J A ,?/ /1       ~d           /J .J'c./ 2.J_f( IJ,/J 141.f



I                                                                 d-2. £g
    9-0lfler                  I          5         /,, tU                             ,?         CJ     ? 2 / tJ, /J '7 I

       Total               £.3        st: 111-? 1..,-.1.t; '411 I//J/J              /t)'/        .?/. 45           74,i 5.t, IIJ.?



I                                 Number
                                             IA<         '1,,;::f-C',:~5
                                                        Per Cent
                                                                           /),<:      ,,.,,,&"

                                                                                    ,?A,,4_A,/e

                                                                                 Number
                                                                                                          sav.~~
                                                                                                          /JC
                                                                                                              t2E


                                                                                                       Per Cent
                                                                                                                            /:/AtLr          6/G I/Ti'/J/6 5
                                                                                                                             .,C'.A#.r,. '£<7'"

                                                                                                                   5,:,,HU h#u,C<;

                                                                                                                               Number
                                                                                                                                                     ,i!.1,t::',,--::



                                                                                                                                                     Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                           I///
                                                                                                                                                                        /?AJ
                                                                                                                                                                                  «1/E


                                                                                                                                                                             Number
                                                                                                                                                                                         STRd'.77£6 /C


                                                                                                                                                                                                              Per Cent



I
         Evaluation       Certain Doubttul Total Certain Doubttu I Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total Certain Doubttul Total Certain Doubttul Total Certain Doubtfu             Total Certain Doubtful Total
    0-Balloon                Ii          Id ,tt· 11::t. 1Ll I :J{J'                    I          ft,     J' £'? //1.5' ,,,,,. $'
    I-Astronomical               5        Ii' 1:/ 5"/ fl'! /f.2.                       /              ?   d 5.3 15. J? 2,/1
    2-Aircraft               /2,         5 rt d.l _,;;/ /7.$                           ,J./       I       ..;, 11a .. 5'.J'        /C   Jr


I                                                                           ~ti
    Hight Phonom.                7.      /J        11/    7./2    11_,1                I          /J       I       ,;:3    11_/J   5.J'
    4-Birds                      /}      /}        /}      /}/,   /)/}      /),'1
                                                                                       eJ        /'J      CJ       ,'JI)   /1/)    (l(J
    5-Clouds,Du~etc.          IJ         /J        /)     t1 /,   /J/J       /}/,      ,-;        cJ      0   /.J.tJ atJ /J/J
    6-lnsuffic. tnfo.         1          /}        1      J(/     g_e,       ff/       /          /)       I  ,;5 17.t? 5J'


I
    7-Psycllological          ?,             I     3      2/J      /.,'1    '7/J       /         Cl        I 55 /J/J ,,:.?
    &-Unknown                            /J      2,/ 2/.t         /,1,1 7/~            I                   I IKJ' /,I IJ 5. J'
    9-0ther
                           .2,/
                              1'         0          '/    'I. I   Cl. tJ 7. I          I
                                                                                                 /J
                                                                                                 d         ,, ~.5' :Z/1 l?t.¢

I      Total               7'5         2q' 99 '15.t i✓.z //J~                          9         /CJ      JI/ ;/ft, 51?,_(, It/a




I
I
I
I
I                                                                                                                     251


I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
     Evaluation
0-Balloon
1-Astmnomical
2-Aircraft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
3-Ligh!Phenom.
4-Birds


6-lnsuffi~ Info.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
7-Psydlological
8-Unlcnown
9-0ther




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
   Total


                                                                                                        ff         c?dJ~c!r              S/6ltTI/Y6S               (Al
                                                                        (),F        7,¥£
                                                                                                                                                        /4,,,~,,,,t.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                        t!u1;, '£n                                              0,,y ON                           ,,,,,, ~A,C£ &JC                     n,,,,JL'<

                              Number                 PerCenl                  Number                PerC"11                 Nunler                PerC"11                 Number                  PerCmt
     Evaluation       Certain OOllbtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certairi Doubtful Total Certain Ooobtful Total ~ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Ooubtfu    Total Certain lloubllul Total
0-Balloon                 51_           '5         ?   d/J       /5
                                                                 ~/4    //7,t.              % ?5 l/n.</            ,;-:t. //M      /?     /~ 2$' '7,Q              '1./ 17./J
                                             /I -7!t, ?.1 d..7' .2/                                                                                               /? 2tU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
1-Astrooomical           ~          /,.                                                    // J'.f!, 11"'.'t.      7,/4 2.2,.2.   21       ? J4 l-'5"
2-Airaaft               //}         /(       I~ 15.2 If./ 2'f.! /9                      ;f .!1 152, 12.5. ?57 /.J                         ?      22,      1.9 5.~ 15.4
3-LijjttPbOIOOI.         ()         I          I /J./J /.5" /.5" t,                      2,  ~ 4.2, 1.4' £/.    5'                        2!,      1      ?/J Ui ,;~
4-Birds                   /         /J        I   /.5" /J,/J      /       ~,               /J       I    &. 7     /J /J t.?.'J"     /      2,     .5'    /J/4     /.;?,    I.&'
5-Clouds, Dust, et~
6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
7-Psychological
8-UnknoMI
                         /}

                        117
                        5"
                         ?
                                    /1
                                    /]

                                    /J
                                    /J
                                       //}

                                         ,<;'
                                             /J       at? /1/J /J
                                                        11.(}
                                              15.Z '1" /&( 2, ?/J
                                               7, t. tJ.CJ 'l't.     e,,
                                          9 1/.J'.,{, tJ.& /.J'. /4 11./
                                                                                         /J
                                                                                           /1


                                                                                           tJ
                                                                                           tJ
                                                                                                 /J
                                                                                                flt)
                                                                                                   ~
                                                                                                         I'.?/?   /7, /? /}.CJ
                                                                                                     I.fl/ /UJ /f. 9 2?
                                                                                                      /d IJ. /) t.4
                                                                                                 t d ,;7 l?,/J 9. 7 .J'4
                                                                                                                                    /1



                                                                                                                                    ""
                                                                                                                                           /1




                                                                                                                                            /J   #
                                                                                                                                                  /J      /J,,:J /J,tJ
                                                                                                                                           /J :27 /t.,6 ,///J 4.5
                                                                                                                                           Cl 5 .J'.CJ tJt? 1CJ
                                                                                                                                                         ~1 ,?_/J $.?'
                                                                                                                                                                          '1/J


                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
!I-Other


    Total             41-
                         ,j         /)



                                   4/1
                                        d        t..l " / ) t.. I

                                             LL. IJ//1
                                                                     t,

                                                                .!tJ.1 llotJ.
                                                                                            I      1 1/.t, /J.1 49 ;/

                                                                                 i/tn, 41, ;dU 1,1.1 1-U,; /(JI) Iii/
                                                                                                                                           (}      ¢     .2.d tl/J J!.~

                                                                                                                                         .55" 1/tt./ 141 '7/..J //Jt?,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                      1ll$L£

                                5/9,v
                              Number
                                             tf?JZ

                                             .?A       A,/A,~/"C)

                                                     Per Cent
                                                                       ClF         r/1£
                                                                                 lf"L A•~(; /JG
                                                                               Number
                                                                                                  /fcur/,,1/

                                                                                                      ;AC;,,-4A,

                                                                                                     Percent
                                                                                                                      £.~,.,u
                                                                                                                             CU'Wli?5r

                                                                                                                             Nulliler
                                                                                                                                                        A'EG /CJ/V

                                                                                                                                                   Per Cent                Number                 PerCml
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
     Evaluation       Certain OOllbtfuI Total Certain lloubtfu I Total Certain Doubtful Tolal Certain Ooobtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Douhtru   Total Certain lloubllul Total
0-Balloon               /;/             'I ~I 11,;- I 1.5' 11.I. g                         ~     ✓ ,-;'.5' £5 //Jt.
l•Astronomical              ~           ?  / / !( t.  ?t, II.~    q                        3      t. ¢1) 1. 9 158
2-Aircraft              /5"         1         ?'7 It.. I          ,f5 '7.J.t.      9       5     14 l?.5'.1 /..!.?, 5t..9
3-LightPbom.
4-Birds
6-Cloud~ Oust,~
6-lnsuffi~lnfo.
                          /J
                         /J
                         /,)

                        15
                                    /J
                                    /J
                                    /J
                                        /J     /}

                                               /)
                                               /1
                                                        /J.I)

                                                        ,1/J
                                                        ~,'.

                                             15 It.I t?./J It.,/
                                                                 iJ. /) iJ. /?
                                                                 t:J /J ,2(J
                                                                 t?.tJ /J/J
                                                                                    I
                                                                                   /}

                                                                                   tJ
                                                                                   J/
                                                                                         I
                                                                                        17
                                                                                           /J
                                                                                           /J
                                                                                                  I ,f.l, tJ./1 ~-t
                                                                                                 /J IJ.(J /J,17 /J tJ
                                                                                                  I ;J.tJ ? L. f?,I,
                                                                                                  'I Id.ti         // IJ   /~t/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
7-Psychological
8-IJnknoMI
!I-Other
                        I~
                          I

                            I
                                    2,
                                    tJ
                                    !2,
                                              5 I.I a.2, 13
                                             18 ,~d ;7 /} /9tl
                                              J  I./ ?.2- f.3
                                                                                   /J
                                                                                   ti
                                                                                   I
                                                                                         tJ
                                                                                         tJ
                                                                                           /J
                                                                                                  tJ 111.tJ ,51,/J /J.tJ
                                                                                                  4 ;tJ,5 tJ,/J 1/,:1,5
                                                                                                   I     ?,/.      n,., ~./.                                                                                         I
    Total              11.,       2/         95 '/14 :n.1.. /n/).                 2'1    I/     J',     ff~ I     ti. 9 tt?t1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                             252
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I                          OJIJLE                                                   E&L/1,?T/tJIV                           r2F
                                                                                                                        ,..,,,,, ~u
                                                                                                                                          1211 lli?'Z-
                                                                                                                                                         ·r
                                                                                                                                                                  S/6HT//Jlte5                                                             df£d5
                                                                                    ;?C
                                                                                             ,, r,1£ ·-                                       1,,/£                 ,;>£,::;/OJI/



I        Evaluation
    0.Balloon
                                       .4..
                                   Number


                                        _J'
                                                A            ·'L':" .,._,


                                                         Per Cent
                                                                              -


                                                                                 Number                PerC01t

                                                                                                          2,
                                                                                                                  ,,:;,:-


                           Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doobtful Total
                              ,;'           1 5./ ...? / i'. 2, ?'!                                              25 /f?.4
                                                                                                                             S,:,1,r..1




                                                                                                                                      /,t,
                                                                                                                                              h/cu


                                                                                                                                              .!tl.!7
                                                                                                                                                                Nurl'ber              PerC01I                 Number
                                                                                                                                                         ertain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Ooubtfu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Total Certain O..blful Total




I   !~Astronomical
    2•Aircraft
    Hight Phenom.
    4--Birds
                             IQ
                              f(
                              /)

                             L?
                                       2f ,/1, 11/J J1L 14.?.it 1'1
                                        i It 1'1, fl 1, 1;;_ Ii J.J
                                        /J
                                        I
                                                    /}

                                                     I
                                                              /J. /)
                                                             /J /}
                                                                        tl,/J. iJ. cJ
                                                                        I/J          / /J
                                                                                               2,
                                                                                               /J
                                                                                                          /4
                                                                                                         /.?
                                                                                                         2,
                                                                                                             /
                                                                                                                 23 J.J.L I/ R 1'1."-
                                                                                                                 ?(,
                                                                                                                   d
                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                            it7.d ',JJ/ 1/J,f
                                                                                                                             1,/.     It.
                                                                                                                            tJ./J /JI? /JK
                                                                                                                                               .J'.2,




I   5-Clouds. Dus~ etc.
    6-lnsuffic.lnfo.
    7-Psychological
                             K'
                             0
                              /         /J
                                       /7
                                       /J
                                                    I
                                                    5
                                                    /J
                                                             /,;;?
                                                             !>. /
                                                             ,7./}
                                                                       ,:1.,o
                                                                        /7,?

                                                                       /J/J /J.O
                                                                                     ,:/J
                                                                                     ~/

                                                                        ,, ,,, ?/_// ~:?./J
                                                                                               /J
                                                                                               f       /}
                                                                                                       /}
                                                                                                         ~


                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                  2,
                                                                                                                  q
                                                                                                                     ///J
                                                                                                                            a.o
                                                                                                                            '1£, tl/J
                                                                                                                                      /.£

                                                                                                                                    /J.C
                                                                                                                                               /. L
                                                                                                                                               't'7.
                                                                                                                                               ,?/)

    8-Unknown               ,?/        /}       "/           '7/'-'                                    /,?       ??. ?t::t,         ao 1'5.t

I   9-0ther


        Total
                              /        .?

                            5,;- //~ Ii~ 5/..
                                                    d         /tJ J. I

                                                                       1.15. ? /M.
                                                                                     d. /       ~



                                                                                              c;c;
                                                                                                         17

                                                                                                       '7L
                                                                                                                  .5' fl.a          /J,J


                                                                                                                 12,:; '/'91, 1flJ 1/,?~
                                                                                                                                               -, /I




I                                       L&s.
                                   Number
                                                tf 2flt:2
                                                             ',t//Cft5S
                                                         Percent
                                                                                    /JC


                                                                                 Number
                                                                                                _,_,r'

                                                                                             l~.4,lAA,n:-
                                                                                                       Per Cent
                                                                                                                 .St''"r,,.,            =~,,
                                                                                                                 ,1,:- So1;7",t/ hP,,,r57
                                                                                                                               Number
                                                                                                                                                        ; 5.,-


                                                                                                                                                     Per Cent
                                                                                                                                                                       ~£,..,,,,.,

                                                                                                                                                                             Number                                                  PerCa,t



I        Evaluation
    0-Balloon
    I-Astronomical
    2-Aimaft
                           Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Total Certain Ooubtfu

                             /-"
                              /.I
                             II
                                         sf

                                        ., /t.
                                        ,f
                                                    '7u /1.t? f,;- ~f.5
                                                    //  ti f{ ff J' '.J'. I
                                                             I.!./ I..IJ 19. J
                                                                                                /
                                                                                               2,,
                                                                                                   I     ?,
                                                                                                       ...J'
                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                  .f 55 ltJ. 5' 15.9
                                                                                                                  d  ~? 15':K fl/I
                                                                                                                  .J' lt'5 ...~ 1§'7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Total Certain Doobllul Total




I   3-LightPh010m.
    4-Birds
    5-Clouds, Oust. etc.       /)
                                 -?,
                                 /)
                                        /)

                                        /J
                                        /J
                                                     /)
                                                     /)
                                                         ?, ",I    ;J.tJ ?.d
                                                               ,, ,, /J{.7 tJ./7
                                                             t?,..;     {J.tJ 17. /)
                                                                                                I
                                                                                               /J
                                                                                               /)
                                                                                                       /)

                                                                                                       ;J
                                                                                                       (l
                                                                                                                   /
                                                                                                                  t?
                                                                                                                  /}
                                                                                                                            ,:;-~     /J.,,
                                                                                                                            ,(J.t:J !?./J
                                                                                                                             /1,I', oc
                                                                                                                                               5. ~
                                                                                                                                               /U?

                                                                                                                                               tJ.tJ
    6-lnsuffic.lnfo.             1      /}           '1        ,tJ ,IJ /) CJ                             /J        /        S::? /) tJ .5'.f
                                                                                                I
                                                                                                         ,,
I   I-Psychological
    II-Unknown
    9-0tlier
                              ~
                             14
                              '1
                                        /)

                                        /J
                                            I
                                                    d
                                                     J'

                                                        '1
                                                              -?.d
                                                             JI,,"/
                                                                            I. 2,
                                                                        r:7.t? IL. '1
                                                              lJ IJ. t) ~3
                                                                                     ., t.      I
                                                                                                I
                                                                                                I
                                                                                                       /J
                                                                                                         ¢'       5
                                                                                                                   /
                                                                                                                    I       53 /J. /J 5.5
                                                                                                                            55        ,, /J

                                                                                                                            ,.5 ?,/./ .?L.~
                                                                                                                                               ,;-f




I       Total               1.1        ~/       1¢ ,t,::o 25.t? IM,>.                           tj     JIJ       Iii 1/11/. 1,,-.u 11711.



I
I
I
I
I                                                                                                                  253 and 254

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I       APPENDIX B
I
I   WORKING PAPER FORMS


I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I        255 and 256


I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I                                  INDEX OF FORMS

                                                                 Page
I   Exhibit Bl.   Tentative Observers Data Sheet   .             259

I   Exhibit B2.   Tentative Observers Questionnaire              267

I   Exhibit B3.   U. S. Air Force Technical Information Sheet.   277


I   Exhibit B4.

    Exhibit BS.
                  Codes for Work Sheet

                  Work Sheet .
                                                                 289

                                                                 297
I   Exhibit B6.   Codes for Card Bible.                          301

I   Exhibit B7.   Card Bible   .                                 309


I   Exhibit BS.   Example of an IBM Card                         313



I
I
I
I
I
I                                    257 and Z58

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
              EXHIBIT Bl
I
I   TENTATIVE OBSERVERS DA TA SHEET

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I              259 and 260

I
I
I                                                  TENTAT'IVE
                                        OBSERVERS DATA Slf.ti:ET
I
                                WherE: Choice is Given, Circle Proper
I                                     Answers, or Insert Answer


I     1.   Date of your ot,servation:
                                                              Day                 Month             Year

I     2.   Date you reported the observation:
                                                                Day                  Month             Ye°ar

I     J. lJhat time was it when you sighted the object:
                                                                                   Hours              Hinutos

I          A.M.      P.H.   Daylight standard

           Zone:     Eastern,    Central,     Mo,.mtain,          Pacific,
I                                                                                              Other
      4.   Length of time object was observed.                  Estimate:                                                     •
I                                                                                    Hours         1".finutas       Seconds

      s. Where observed:
I                                                                                                                         •
                  l5ostal Address                      City or Toi-m                       State           Country
I          Where were you at time of observation:

I                 Inside building,    In Car,          Outdoors,
                                                                                              Other

I          ~Vero you movir1g at any time du.ring this sighting:
                                                                                          Yes or No
                                                                                                                •

I     8. Did you stop at any time during this sighting:
                                                                                        Yes or No
                                                                                                                    •

I          If 'you were moving - give
                                            --D-ir,_e_c..,..t"'"i-on--
                                                                         and
                                                                               --S-i!-~e-ed
                                                                                              miles per hour.


I    10.   How was object observed:         Na.1-(ed eye
                                            Ey,:, glasses
                                            Other glass (Window or Windshield)
I                                           BinocuJ.ars, Telescope, Theodolite
                                            Other
                                                     ------·-------
I    11.   How did you happen to notice the object:

I
I.                                                      261

I
                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                       I
12.   Describe what you saw as criefly as possible in the following spaces:                            I
      a.
      c.
           Sound
           Color
                                                      b.
                                                      de
                                                             Shape
                                                             Size
                                                                                                       I
      e.   Number                                     f.     Light brightness                          I
      g.   LiGht color
           Speed
                                                      h.     Motion
                                                                                                       I
                                                             Other
lJ.
      i.

      How did object disappear from view:
                                                      j.

                                                    Suddenly or
                                                                    -------------
                                                                      Gradually                        I
                                                              Circle One         •

      At any time did the object:                                                                      I
      a.   Change direction.
      House, Tree,
                                 b.   Change speed.
                                                 d.
                                                             c.   Hove behind something; Cloud,
                                                           Blond with backgrou..'1d.   e.   Decrease
                                                                                                       I
                             Other
                                                                                                       I
      in size.     f.   Decrease in brightnes.:o.      g.     Move in front of something.
      h.                                                                                               I
      When you first looked at the object, uhat direction were you facing?
                                                                                            ----
                                                                                                       I
16.   L'hen you last saw the object, ,·Jhat direction were you facing?
                                                                                      -------          I
17.   In the follouing Sketch A, draw lines

      from the observer's eye to the circular                                                          I
      arc to show tha apparent elevation of the
                                                             Directly                                  I
      object in the sky.                                      Overhead

      A.   When first seen, label a.                                                                   I
      B.   When last seen, label b.                                                                    I
                                                             Ob~erver 1 s
                                                                                                       I
                                                                  :tye
                                                                            SETCH A                    I
                                                                                                       I
                                           262
                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                       I
I
I
I   18.     On the following Sketch B, label a at

            the apparent position of the object
I           when first, seen and b at point last
                                                                       Overhead
I           seen.     Trace the appar:3nt path of

            the ob,ject between points a and b.
I
            If possible label 1, 2, 3, etc.,
I           along the traced path to show the                      (/        0

I           successive positions of the object
                                                             Horizon     Obser_v_e_r~•-s--~Horizon

I           after equal intervals of time dur­

            ing the sighting.
                                                                            Eye

                                                                        SKETCH B
I   19.     In Sketch C please show the


I           observed features of the object

            such as;

I           A,     Apparent shape, {were edges


I           13,
                   poil..ted or rounded),

                   Apparent direction of r:iotion

I                  ( .si1 ow by arrow), a'1d


I           C.     Other detall::i, exhaust, trails,

                   tails, surfaces, etc.                                SKETCH C
I   :?O •   The sun and the moon are ::,;1ovm below as they appear in their correct relative

I           size.     In this s::etch D, show the appar.snt siza of what you saw.



I            SUN                                OBJECT


I
I                                              SKETC;-J: D
I                                                263

I
                                                                                    I
                                                                                    I
                                                                                    I
21.   In your own words please describe the sighting you observed.   Use sketches
      if desired.   All observations from the time of first sighting to the time
                                                                                    I
      of dissappearance are important.   Include a description of the weather,      I
      wind, and cloud condttions at the time of this sighting.
                                                                                    I
                                                                                    I
                                                                                    I
                                                                                    I
                                                                                    I
                                                                                    I
                                                                                    I
                                                                                    I
                                                                                    I
                                                                                    I
                                                                                    I
                                                                                    I
                                                                                    I
                                                                                    I
                                                                                    I
                                      264
                                                                                    I
                                                                                    I
I
I
I   22.   Your fuJ.1 name:
I   23.   Your address:

I   24. Your occupation:
    25.   Last school you attended:
I   26.   Year of last attendd.Dce at this school:

I   27. ?lease list the names and addresses o.f persons who di.scussed thj_s sighting
          with you.   It is not necessary to li.st t:1e names of officials or investigators.
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
    28.   Further cor.JJ:,Gnts which you believe are i:nportant shou.ld be entered here.
I         Use additional s!v,ets of the same sizc-3 if nocr::ss~r:y.

I
I
I
I
I                                        265 and 266

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
               EXHIBIT B2
I
I   TENTATIVE OBSERVERS QUESTIONNAIRE

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I               267 and 268

I
    I
                                              TErJTATIVE
    I                                 OBSERVERS QUESTIONNAIRE

    I
    I                                         SECTION A


    I   1. When did you see the object:
           1.1 Date: -...--
    I                  Day               Month             Year
           1.2 Time of Day:                                      A,M, or P.M.    (Circle One)
    I                                 Hrs.         Min.

           l.J Time Zone: (Circle One):
    I                 a.    Eastern                        d.    Pacific
                      b.    Central                        e.    Other
    I                 c.    Mountain

                      (Circle One):      a.   Daylight Saving
    I                                    b.   Standard
           1.4   Circle one of the following to indicate how certain you are of
    I              your answer to the above question 1.2:
                      a.    Certain                        c.    Not very sure
    I                 b.    Fairly certain                 d.    Just a guess
        2. Where were you when you saw the object:
    I
                      Postal Address                      City or Town           state      Country
    I      Additional Remarks:

    I
        3. Where were you located when you saw the object:
    I       (Circle One):   a.   Inside a building          d.    In an airplane
                            b.   In a car                   e.    At sea
    I                       c.   Outdoors                   f.    Other
                                                                          ------
           3,1 Were you:
    I                 (Circle One):      a.   In the business section of a city?
                                         b.   In the residential section of a city?
    I                                    c•
                                         d.
                                               In open countryside?
                                              Flying near an airfield?
                                         e.   Flying over a city?
    I                                    r.   Flying over open country?
I


11
                                         g.   Ot)lEJr


                                                269
                                                        --------------
    I
                                                                                 I
                                                                                 I
4.   How did you happen to notice the object?
                                                                                 I
                                                                                 I
,. When did you report to some official that you had seen the object?
                                                                                 I
           Day             Month               Year
                                                                                 I
                                                                                 I
                                    SECTION B
                                                                                 I
6. What were you doing at the time you saw the object?
                                                                                 I
     6.1 What had you been doing for the JO minutes before you saw the object?
             Try to list the activity or activities and the approximate amount
                                                                                 I
             of time spent on each.
                                                                                 I
                                                                                 I
7. Were you moving at any time while you saw the object? (Circle One):
                                                                                 I
     Yes         or         No                                                   I
       IF you answered YES, then complete the following questions:
     7.1 What directionwere you moving?
               (Circle One): a. North              e. South
                                                                                 I
                              b. rlortheast        r. Southwest
                              c. East
                              d. Southeast
                                                   g. West
                                                   h. Northwest
                                                                                 I
     7. 2 How fast were you moving?
                                               ------miles per hour.             I
     7.3 Did you stop at any time while you were looking at the object?
                 (Circle One):     Yes         or     No
                                                                                 I
8. What direction were you looking when you first saw the object?                I
     (Circle One):    a.
                      b.
                      c.
                           North
                           Northeast
                           East
                                                           e.
                                                           f.
                                                           g.
                                                                South
                                                                Southwest
                                                                West
                                                                                 I
                      d.   Southeast
                                         270
                                                           h.   Northwest
                                                                                 I
                                                                                 I
I
I
I                    \
          8.1 What.direction were you looking when the object disappeared?
I                (Circle One):        a.
                                      b.
                                           North
                                           Northeast
                                                              e.    South '
                                                              r. Southwest
I                                     c.
                                      d.
                                           East
                                           Southeast
                                                              g.
                                                              h.
                                                                    West
                                                                    Northwest

I         8.2 Circle one of the following to indicate how certain you are of
                your answer to the above question and preceding question ( 8 and
                   8.1).
I                                     a.   Certain            c.    Not very sure
                                      b.   Fairly certain     d,    Just a guess
I    9. Were you wearing eye glasses when you saw the object? (Circle One):

I          Yes       or        No
    10.   How was the object seen?
I           (Circle One):           a. Through window glass   e.    Through theodolite
                                    b. Through windshield     r. Through sunglasses
I                                   c. • Through binoculars
                                    d. Through telescope
                                                              g.
                                                              h.
                                                                    Through open space
                                                                    Other

I   11. What do you remember about the weather conditions at the time you saw the
         object?

I         11.1   CLOUDS ( Circle One)                  11.3 WEATHER {Circle One)
                         a.   Clear sky                       a.    Dry
I                        b.
                         c.
                              Hazy
                              Scattered clouds
                                                              b.
                                                              C,
                                                                    Fog, Mist, or light rain
                                                                    Moderate or heavy rain
                         d.   Thick or heavy clouds            d.   Snow
I                        e.   Don't remember                  e.    Don I t remember
          11.2 WIND (Circle One)                       11.4 TEMPERATURE (Circle One)
I                        a,   Ho wind                         a. Cold
                         b.   Slight breeze                   b. Cool
I                        c.
                         d.
                              Strong wind
                              Don't remember
                                                              c. Wann
                                                              d. Hot
                                                              e. Don't remember
I
I                                             SECTION C

I   12.   Estimate how long you saw the object?
                                                              Hours       Minutes        Seconds

I                                                271

I
                                                                                            I
                                                                                            I
      12.l Circle one of the following to indicate how certain you are of your
             answer to Question 12:
                                                                                            I
                 a.
                 b.
                      Certain
                      Fairly sure
                                                         c.
                                                         d.
                                                                Not very sure
                                                                Just a guess
                                                                                            I
      Did the object look:    ( Circle One)
                                               -Solid    or     Transparent                 I
      Did the object at any time:
                                                 (Circle One for each question)
                                                                                            I
      J.4.1 Change direction?                      Yes          No
                                                                No
                                                                       Don't know
                                                                       Don't know
                                                                                            I
      14.2 Change speed?                           Yes
      14.3 Change size?
      14.4 Change color?
                                                   Yes
                                                   Yes
                                                                No
                                                                No
                                                                       Don't know
                                                                       Don 1 t know         I
      14.5 Break up into parts or
              explode?                             -
                                                   Yes           No    Don't know
                                                                                            I
      14.6 Give off smoke?                         Yes           No    Don 1 t know
      14.7 Change brightness?                      Yes          No     Don't know
      14.8 Flicker., throb., or
              pulsate?
                                                   Yes           No    Don•t know
                                                                                            I
      14.9 Remain motionless?
                                                   -
                                                   Yes           No    Don't know
                                                                                            I
15.   Did the object give off a light?        ( Cj_rcle One):
                                                                - -
                                                                Yes     No     Don't know
      15.1   IF you answered YES., what was the color of the light?
                                                                                            I
16.   Tell in a few vJOrds the following things about the object?
                                                                                            I
      16.1 Sound
                      -----------------------                                               I
      16. 2 Color
                      -----------------------
      IF there was MORE THAN ONE object., then how many were there?
        Draw a picture of how they were arranged and put an arrow to show the
        direction they were traveling.                                                      I
                                                                                            I
                                                                                            I
                                                                                            I
18.   Did the object at any time:

      18.1 Move behind something?     (Circle One)       Yes      No     Don't know
                                                                                            I
             IF you answered~, then tell what it moved behind.                              I
                                        272
                                                                                            I
                                                                                            I
I
I         18.2 Move in front of something?           (C1.rcle One)   ~        No    Don't know
I                IF you answered~, then tell what it moved in front of.


I         18.3 Blend with the background?        (Circle One)        ~       No    Don't know
I         Which of the following objects is about the same actual size as the object
           you saw? (Circle One):
I                    a.
                     b.
                           Pea
                           Baseball
                                                              f.
                                                              g.
                                                                     Automobile
                                                                     Small airplane
I                    c.
                     cl.
                     e.
                           Basketball
                           Bicycle wheel
                           Office desk
                                                              h.
                                                              i.
                                                              j.
                                                                     Large airplane
                                                                     Dirigible
                                                                     Other
I         19.1 Circle one of the following to indicate how certain you are of your
                 answer to Question 19.
I                    a.
                     ,._
                     vo
                           Certain
                           Fairly certain
                                                              c.
                                                              d.
                                                                     Not very sure
                                                                     Uncertain
I   20.   Try to tell the following things about the object:

I         20.1
          20.2
                 How high above the earth was it?             ________feet.
                 How far was it from you? _____ feet or _ _ _ _ _miles.
          20.3   How fast was it going? .,.....__,_.,..._...,..._miles per hour.
I         20.4   Circle one of the following to indicate how certain you are of your
                   ans·wer to the above questions:

I                   a.
                    b.
                           Certain
                           Fairly certain
                                                              c.
                                                              d.
                                                                     Wot very sure
                                                                     Just a guess

I   21.   How did the object disappear from View?

            (Circle One):     a.   Suddenly                   c.     Other
I                             b.   Gradually                                 ---------
                                                              d. Don't remember


I                                           SECTION D

I   22.   In the fol:!.owing sketch, imagine your eye at the point shov-rn. Place an 11 A11
            on the curved line to show how high the object was above the horizon
            ( skyline) when you first saJ: it, Place a 11 B11 to show v1here it was when
I           you last saw it.
                -
                                  0v h d
                                    e ea

I
I                                     .:,
                                      't,----_._----Horizon
I                                   You
                                               273

I
                                                                             I
                                                                             I
In the following sketch place an 11A11 at the position the object was when
  y o u ~ saw it, and a "B" at its posi.tion when you~ saw it.
                                                                             I
                            Overhead
                                                                             I
                                                                             I
          Horizon _   Q
                   ._ _
                     _______
                         _   _..__ Horizon
                              You
                                                                             I
                                                                             I
                                                                             I
Dr~rw a picture that will show the motion that the object made. Place an
   11 A" at the beginning of its path and a 11 B11 at the end of its path.
                                                                             I
                                                                             I
                                                                             I
                                                                             I
                                                                             I
                                                                             I
                                                                             I
Draw a picture that will show the shape of the object. Label and include
  in your sketch any details of the object that you saw and place an arrow
  beside the dravnng to show the direction the object was moving.
                                                                             I
                                                                             I
                                                                             I
                                                                             I
                                                                             I
                               274                                           I
                                                                             I
 I
 I
 I
 I                                                SECTION E

 I   26. Was this the first time that you have seen an object like this?
             (Circle One):       Yes     or       No
 I
           26.1 IF you answered N0 1 then when, where, and under what conditions did
I                          ---------------------
                  you see other ones?

I                 ____________________________                                                  ,_




I    27.   In your opinion what do you think the object was and what might have caused
             it?
I
I    26.   Give the following information about yourself:
I          NAME - - - - 1....a_s_t_M,...am_e_ _ __
                                                              First Name          Middle Name
I          ADDRESS ____,.,,,.S.,.tr_e_e..,.t_ _ __
                                                               City        Zone      State
I          TELEPHONE J\TUMBER
                                ----------
I          What is your present job?
                                              ---------------------
I
           Age
                 ------
           Sex
                 ------
I    29. Was anyone else with you at the time you saw the object?


I                           -
             (Circle One): Yes
           29 .1 IF you answered ~
                                   or
                                        -
                                        No
                                      did they see the object too?
                                              1



I                (Circle One):         ~
                                      or No
                                           -
           29.2 Please list their names and addresses:
I
I                                                 275

I
                                                                              I
                                                                              I
                                                                              I
JO.   Please add here any further comments which you believe are important.
        Use adcli.tional sheets of the same size paper, if necessary.         I
                                                                              I
                                                                              I
                                                                              I
                                                                              I
                                                                              I
                                                                              I
                                                                              I
                                                                              I
                                                                              I
                                                                              I
                                                                              I
                                                                              I
                                                                              I
                                                                              I
                                                                              I
                                                                              I
                                   276                                        I
                                                                              I
 I
II
 I
 I
 I
 I
 I
I
I
I
I                    EXHIBIT B3



I    U. S. AIR FORCE TECHNICAL INFORMATION SHEET

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I                     277 and 278

I
I
I
                           u. s.   AIR     FORCE          TECHNICAL            INFORMATIO.N          SHEET
I
                    This questionnaire has been prepared so that you can give the U. S. Air Force as much
I            information as possible concerning the unidentified aerial phenomenon that you have observed.
             Please try to answer as many questions as you possibly can. The information that you give will
             be used for research purposes, and will be regarded as confidential material. Your name will not
I            be used in connection with any statements, conclusions, or publications without your permission.
             We request this personal information so that, if it is deemed necessary, we may contact you for
             further details.
I
I    1. When did you see the object?                                      2.    Time of day:
                                                                                                   Hour               Minutes


                                                                                   (Circle One):         A.M.
I
                 Day            Month              Year                                                          or      P.M.


    3. Time zone:
I                      (Circle One): a, Eastern
                                     b. Central
                                                                                   (Circle One):   a. Daylight Saving
                                                                                                   b. Standard
                                     C, Moun ta in

I                                    d. Pacific
                                     e. Other


I   4. Where were you when you saw the object?


I                      Nearest Postol Address

         Additional remarks:
                                                                         City or Town                       Stote or Country




I   5. Estimate how long you saw the object,
                                                          Hours                Minutes         Seconds



I          5.1   Circle one of the following to indicate how certain you ore of your answer to Question 5.

                           a. Certain                             c. Not very sure

I                          b. Fairly certain                      d. Just a guess

    6. What was the conditia, of the sky?
I          (Circle One):    a. Bright daylight                            d. Just a trace of daylight

I                           b. Dull daylight
                            c. Bright twi I ight
                                                                          e. No trace of daylight
                                                                          f. Don't remember



I   7.   IF you saw the object during DAYLIGHT, TWILIGHT, or DAWN, where was the SUN located as you looked at
         the object?

           (Circle One): a. In front of you                              d. To your left
I                        b. In back of you
                         C, To your right
                                                                         e. Overhead
                                                                         f. Don't remember


I
I                                                                  279



I
                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                              I
 8.   IF you saw the object at NIGHT, TWILIGHT, or DAWN, what did you notice concerning the STARS and MOON?

        8.1    STARS (Circle One):                                      8.2 MOON (Circle One):                                I
                  a. None                                                       a. Bright moonlight
                  b. A few                                                      b. Dull moonlight                             I
                  c. Many                                                       c. No moonlight -     pitch dark
                  d. Don't remember                                             d. Don't remember                             I
 9. Was the object brighter than the background of the sky?
                                                                                                                              I
        (Circle One):             a. Yes                     b. No                  c. Don't remember

10.   IF it was BRIGHTER THAN the sky background, was the brightness like that of an automobile headlight?:
                                                                                                                              I
                                            (Circle One) a. A mile or more away (a distant car)?
                                                          b. Several blocks away?
                                                                                                                              I
                                                          c. A block away?
                                                          d. Severa I yards away?
                                                                                                                              I
                                                          e. Other

11. Did the object:                                                           (Circle One for each question)                  I
        a. Appear to stand still at any time?                           Yes            No              Don't Know
        b.
        c.
              Suddenly speed up and rush away at any time?
              Break up into parts or explode?
                                                                        Yes
                                                                        Yes
                                                                                       No
                                                                                       No
                                                                                                       Don't Know
                                                                                                       Don't Know
                                                                                                                              I
        d.    Give off smoke?                                           Yes            No              Don't Know
        e.
        f.
              Change brightness?
              Change shape?
                                                                        Yes
                                                                        Yes
                                                                                       No
                                                                                       No
                                                                                                       Don't Know
                                                                                                       Don't Know
                                                                                                                              I
        g.    Flicker, throb; or pulsate?                               Yes            No              Don't Know

12. Did the object move behind something at anytime, particularly a cloud?
                                                                                                                              I
        (Circle One):
        it moved behind:
                                Yes            No         Don't Know.               IF you answered YES, then tell what
                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                          .
13. Did the object move in front of something at anytime, particularly a cloud?                                               I
        (Circle One):
        it moved in front of:
                                Yes            No         Don't Know.               IF you answered YES, than tell what
                                                                                                                              I
14. Did the object appear:      (Circle One):            a. Solid?             b. Trans parent?             c. Don't Know.    I
15. Did you observe the object through any of the fol lowing?
        a.    Eyeglasses              Yes           No           e. Binoculars               Yes          No
                                                                                                                              I
        b.    Sun glasses             Yes           No             f. Telescope              Yes          No
        c.
        d.
              Windshield
              Window glass
                                      Yes
                                      Yes
                                                    No
                                                    No
                                                                 g. Theodolite
                                                                 h. Other
                                                                                             Yes          No
                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                              I
                                                             280                                                              I
                                                                                                                              I
I
I
I   16. Tell in a few words the following things about the object.


        a. S o u n d - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

I       b. C o l o r - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -


I   17. Draw a picture that will show the shape of the object or objects. Label and include in your sketch any details
        of the object that you saw such as wings, protrusions, etc., and especially exhaust trails or vapor trails. Place

I       an arrow beside the drawing to show the direction the object was moving.




I
I
I
I
I
I   18. The edges of the object were:
            (Circle One): a. Fuzzy or blurred                        e. Other _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
                           b. Like a bright star
I                          c. Sharply outlined
                           d. Don't remember


I   19. IF there was MORE THAN ONE object, then how many were there?
        Draw a picture of how they were arranged, and put an arrow to show the direction that they were traveling.


I
I
I
I
I
I
I                                                          281



I
                                                                                                                                       I
    20. Draw a picture that will show the motion that the object or objects made. Place an "A• at the beginning
                                                                                                                                       I
        of the path, a •B• at the end of the path, and show any changes in direction during the course.
                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                      I
   21. IF POSSIBLE, try to guess or estimate what the real size of the object was in its longest dimension.
                         feet.                                                                                                        I
   22. How large did the object or objects appear as compared with one of the following objects held in the hand
       and at about arm's length?                                                                                                    I
           (Circle One):           a.   Head of a pin                          g.   Silver dollar
                                   b.
                                   c.
                                        Pea
                                        Dime
                                                                               h.
                                                                               i.
                                                                                    Baseball
                                                                                    Grapefruit
                                                                                                                                     I
                                   d.   Nickel                                 j.   Basketball
                                   e.
                                   f.
                                        Quarter
                                        Half dollar
                                                                               k.   Other                                            I
     22.1 (Circle One of the following to indicate how certain you are of your answer to Question 22.
                                   a. Certain                                  c. Not very sure
                                                                                                                                     I
                                   b. Fairly certain                           d. Uncertain
1 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --------;
   23. How did the object or objects disappear from view?
                                                                                                                                     I
        ---------------------------------------------·                                                                               I
   24. In order that you can give as clear a picture as possible of what you saw, we would like for you to imagine that you could
       construct the object that you saw,   Of what type material would you make it? How large would it be, and what shape
       would it have? Describe in your own words a common object or objects which when placed up in the sky would give the
                                                                                                                                    I
       same appearance as the object which you saw.
                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                    I
                                                              282
                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                    I
 I
 I   25, Where were you located when you saw the object?
          (Circle One):
                                                                      26, Were you (Circle One)


 I         a. Inside a building
           b. In a car
                                                                           a. In the business section of a city?
                                                                           b.
                                                                           c.
                                                                              In the residential section of a city?
                                                                              In open countryside?

 I         c. Outdoors
           d. In an airplane
           e. At sea
                                                                           d.
                                                                           e.
                                                                              Flying near an airfield?
                                                                              Flying over a city?
                                                                           f. Flying over open country?

 I         f. Other                                                        g. Other


     27, What were you doing at the time you saw the object, and how did you happen to notice it?
 I
 I
                                                                                                                            .
 I   28. IF you were MOVING IN AN AUTOMOBILE or o1her vehicle at the time, then complete the following questions:

 I          28.1 What direction were you moving? (Circle One)
                                                                      e, South
                 a. North                   C, East                                               9• West

 I               b. Northeast               d. Southeast              f. Southwest                h. Northwest

            28.2 How fast were you moving?                               miles per hour.

I           28.3 Did you stop at any time while you were looking at the object?
                          (Circle One)       Yes                 No
I    29. What direction were you looking when you first saw the object? (Circle One)

I                a. North
                 b. Northeast
                                            c. East
                                            d. Southeast
                                                                      e. South
                                                                      f. Southwest
                                                                                                  g. West
                                                                                                  h. Northwest

I    30. What direction were you looking when you last saw the object? (Circle One)

I                a. North
                 b. Northeast
                                            c. East
                                            d. Southeast
                                                                      e. South
                                                                      f. Southwest
                                                                                                  9• West
                                                                                                  h. Northwest


I    31. If you are familiar with bearing terms (angular direction), try to estimate the number of degrees the object was
         from true North and also the number of degrees it was upward from the horizon (elevation).

I           31.1 When it first appeared:
                    a. From true North                degrees.

I                   b. From horizon                 degrees,

            31.2 When it disappeared:
I                   a. From true North
                    b. From horizon
                                                      degrees.
                                                    degrees.


I
I                                                            283



11
                                                                                                                         I
32. In the following sketch, imagine that you are at the point shown, Place an •A" on the curved I ine to show how
                                                                                                                         I
    high the object was above the horizon {skyline) when you first saw it, Place a "B• on the same curved line to
    show how high the object was above the horizon (skyline) when you last saw it.                                       I
                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                         I
33. In the following larger sketch place an "A" at the position the object was when you first saw it, and a "Bn at its
    position when you last saw it. Refer to smaller sketch as an example of how to complete the larger sketch.
                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                         I
                                                       284                                                               I
                                                                                                                         I
  I
  I      34. What were the weather conditions at the time you saw the object?

  I           34.1 CLOUDS (Circle One)
                    a. Clear sky
                                                                          34.2 WIND (Circle One)
                                                                               a. No wind
                    b. Hazy                                                     b. SI ight breeze

  I                 c.
                    d.
                       Scattered clouds
                       Thick or heavy clouds
                                                                                c. Strong wind
                                                                                d. Don't remember
                    e. Don't remember

  I           34.3 WEATHER (Circle One)                                   34.4 TEMPERATURE (Circle One)
                    a. Dry                                                      a,
  I                 b. Fog, mist, or light rain
                    c. Moderate or heavy rain
                                                                                b.
                                                                                c.
                                                                                  Cold
                                                                                  Cool
                                                                                  Warm
                    d. Snow
  I                 e, Don't remember
                                                                                d.Hot
                                                                               e. Don't remember


  I      35, When did you report to some off ic ia I that you had seen the object?


                    Day                Month                 Year


 I    f - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - · - · · ··-··------'
         36, Was anyone else with you at the time you saw the object?


 I                   (Circle One)     Yes              No
             36. 1 IF you answered YES, did they see the object too?
                     (Circle One)     Yes               No
 I           36.2 Please list their names and addresses:


 I
 I       37, Was this the first time that you had seen an object or objects like this?


 I                   (Circle One)     Yes              No
             37.1 IF you answered NO, then when, where, and under what circumstances did you see other ones?


 I
I                  -----------------------------------·
I       38, In your opinion what do you think the object was and what might have caused it?



I
I
I
I                                                              285



I
                                                                                                                  I
39. Do you think you can estimate the speed of the object?                                                        I
            (Circle One)          Yes        No
     IF you answered YES, then what speed would you estimate?                  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ m.p.h.             I
40. Do you think you can estimate how far away from you the object was?
            (Circle One)         Yes         No
                                                                                                                  I
     IF you answered YES, then how far oway would you say it was?              _ _ _ _ _ _ _ feet.                I   I




41. Please give the following information about yourself:                                                         I
    NAME-----,--,-~-----
                           Last Name                           First Name                       Middle Name
                                                                                                                  I
    ADDRESS
                                 Street                                 City                  Zone        Stote   I
    TELEPHONE NUMBER _ _ _ _ _ _ __
                                                                                                                  I
    What is your present j o b ? - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

    Age _ _ _ __               Sex _ _ _ _ _ __
                                                                                                                  I
    Please indicate any special educational training that you have had.
                                                                                                                  I
        a. Grade school _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
        b. High school__________
                                                       e. e, Technical school _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
                                                                   (Type) _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
                                                                                                                  I
        c. College _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
        d. Post graduate _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
                                                            f. Other special training _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
                                                                                                                  I
42. Date you completed this questionnaire:
                                                                                                                  I
                                                                  Day                 Month             Year
                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                  I
                                                        286
                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                  I
I
I
I                    U. S. A I R FOR C E T EC H HI CAL
                                                (SUMMARY DA TA)
                                                                 I H FORMAT IO H SH E E T



 I
                 In order that your information may be filed and coded as accurately as possible, please use

 I        the following space to write out a short description of the event that you observed. You may re•
          peat information that you have already given in the questionnaire, and add any further comments,
          statements, or sketches that you believe are important. Try to present the details of the observa•

 I        tion in the order in which they occurred. Additional pages of the same size paper may be attached
          if they are needed,


I    NAME _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
                              (Please Print)
                                                                           (Do Not Write in This Space)


I    SIGNATURE _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
                                                                           CODE:



I    DATE _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __



I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I                                                       287

I
                     I
                     I
                    I
                   .I
                    I
                    I
                    I
                    I
                    I
                    I
                    I
                    I
                    I
                    I
                    I
                    I
                    I
                    I
                    I
L__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ I
         288

                     I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
         EXHIBIT B4
I
I   CODES FOR WORK SHEET

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I        289 and 290

I
I
I
                                         CODES
I
    CODE 1. GENERAL
I          a. Every column must have at least one entry. If no data are
              available for any column, the Y should be used.
I          b.   If a number in any column is used to enter data, then X
                qualifies the data as indicated in the Code for the specific
I               column.

I   CODE 25 DURATION UNITS        CODE 28 IATITUDE      CODE 32 LONGITUDE
           X                         X South latitude   X East longitude
I          y
            O Days
                                     y
                                     0
                                                        y
                                                            0

I           1 Hours
            2 Minutes
            3 Seconds
                                     1
                                     2
                                     3
                                                        1

                                                         3
                                                            2


I          4
           6
            5
                                     4
                                     5
                                     6
                                                        4
                                                        5
                                                        6
I          7
            8
            9
                                     7
                                     8
                                     9
                                                        7
                                                         8
                                                         9
I   CODE 41 POSITION         CODE 42·MOVEMENT OF OBSERVER
I     X Variable
      y
                                 X
                                 y

I      0
       1 In car
       2 Outdoors
                                 0 Wasn't moving
                                 1 Was moving - stopped
                                 2 Was moving - didn't stop
I      3 In plane
       4
       5
         In building
                                 3
                                 4
                                  5
I     6
      7
       8
                                 6
                                 7
                                 8
I      9 Other                   9


I
I
I
I                                        291

I
                                                                                I
                                                                                I
QQDE 43 OBSERVATION METHOD           CODE 44 SOUND
                                                                                I
      X
      y
          Variable                   X Variable
                                     y
                                                                                I
      0   Naked eye                        Motors
      1
      2
          Eye glasses
          Window
                                     0
                                     1
                                     2
                                           Jet or rockets
                                           Explosion
                                                                                I   I
                                                                                    I




      3   Windshield                 3     Unlike aircraft
      4
      5
          Binocular
          Telescope
                                     4
                                     5
                                           Hiss, swishing, whining
                                           Rumbling
                                                                                I
      6   Theodolite                 6     Humming or buzzing
      7
      8
          Radar
          Photographic
                                     7
                                     8
                                           None
                                           Not stated
                                                                                I
          Other                            Other
      9                              9
                                                                                I
CODE 45 COLOR              CODE 46 NUMBER                 CODE 47 LIGHT-COLOR
X Variable                   X                              X   Variable
                                                                                I
y                            y                              y
0 Metallic
1 Light-glow-luminous
                             0- 1
                             1 - 2
                                                            0 White
                                                            1 Black
                                                                                I
2
3
4
    Red
    Orange
    Yellow
                             2 - 3
                             3 - 4
                             4 - 5
                                                            2 Grey
                                                            3 Red
                                                            4 Orange
                                                                                I
5
6
7
    Green
    Blue
    Violet
                             5 - 6
                             6 - 7 - 10
                             7 - 11 - 20
                                                            5 Yellow
                                                            6 Green
                                                            7 Blue
                                                                                I
8
9
    Black
    White
                             8 - 20 - 30
                             9 - 31 or more
                                                            8 Violet
                                                            9 Other             I
CODE 48 SPEED                    CODE 49 SHAPE                                  I
X
y
0
    Variable
                     •
    Hovering, stationary
                                 X Variable
                                 y
                                 0 Ellipse
                                                                                I
l
2
3
    Less than 100 m.p.h.
    100-400 m.p.h.
    More than 400 m.p.h.
                                 l
                                 2
                                 3
                                         Rocket
                                         Conventional aircraft
                                         Unconventional aircraft
                                                                                I
4
5
6
    Meteor like
    Not stated
                                 4
                                 5
                                 6
                                         Meteor, comet
                                         Lenticular
                                         Conical
                                                                                I
7
8
9 Other
                                 7
                                 8
                                 9
                                         Tear drop
                                         Flame, tails, fire
                                         Other
                                                                                I
                                                                                I
                                                                                I
                                     292                                        I
                                                                                I
I
I
I                                    CODE 51 SUBTENDED VISUAL ANGLE
    CODE 50 SHAPE PARAMETER a/b      {Referred to sun diameter)
I           X - Variable                    X - Decreased in size
            y                               y
I           0 -   o.o
            l - 0.05
                                            0 - 0.1
                                            l - 0.2
            2 - 0.1                               0.5
I           3 - 0.2
            4 - 0 •.3
                                            2 -
                                            .3 - o.75
                                            4 ... 1.0
            5 - 0.5                         5 - 1.5
I           6 - 0.75
            7 - 0.9
                                            6 - 2.0
                                            7 - 4.0
            8 - 1.0                         8 - 4.0 to 10.0
I           9 - Other                       9 - Other

I   CODE 52 LIGHT BRIGHTNESS (Intens.llzl     CODE 53 ANGULAR VELOCITY
        X Decreased                           X Variable
I       y
        0 Sunlight on mirror
                                              y
                                              0  Zero
I       l
        2
        3
            Sunlight on aluminum
            Sunlight on plaster
            Sunlight on stone
                                              1 Very slow, 1° per second
                                              2 Slow, .3° per second
                                              .3 Moderate, 60 per second

I       4
        5
        6
            Sunlight on soil
            Brighter than moon
            Like moon
                                              4 Rapid, 12° per second
                                              5 Very fast, 30° per second
                                              6 Extremely fast, 900 per second
I       7
        8
        9
            Duller than moon
            Barely visible
            Other
                                              7 More than 900 per second
                                              8
                                              9 Other
I   CODE 54 ANGULAR ACCELERATION
I   (Change in Angular Velocity)
    X Variable
                                              CODE 55 APPEARANCE BEARING
                                                        X

I   y
    O Zero, v=constant
    l Increasing slowly
                                                        y
                                                        0 - N
                                                        1 - NE
I   2 Decreasing slowly
    3 Increasing fast
    4 Decreasing fast
                                                        2 - E
                                                        3 - SE
                                                        4 - s
I   5 Increasing very fast
    6 Decreasing very fast
                                                        5 - SW
                                                        6-W
    7                                                   7 - NW
I   8
    9
                                                        8
                                                        9

I
I                                  293

I
                                                                                     I
                                                                                     I
                                     CODE 57-58 ELEVATION
                                                                                     I
CODE 56 DISAPPEARANCE BEARING        WITH RESPECT TO GROUND. DEGREES
       X - Disappeared suddenly          Initi1l              ~
                                                                                     I
       y
       0-N
       l - NE
                                     X Variable
                                     y
                                     0 0-9
                                                          X Variable
                                                          y
                                                          0 0-9
                                                                                     I
       2 - E
       3 - SE
       4-S
                                     l 10-19
                                     2 20-29
                                     .3 .30-.39
                                                          l 10-19
                                                          2 20-29
                                                          .3 .30-.39
                                                                                     I
       5 - SW
       6-W
       7 - NW
                                     4 40-49
                                     5 50-59
                                     6 60-69
                                                          4 40-49
                                                          5 50-59
                                                          6 60-69
                                                                                     I
       8
       9
                                     7 70-79
                                     8 80-89
                                     9
                                                          7 70-79
                                                          8 80-89
                                                          9
                                                                                     I
CODE 61 OBJECT ORIENTATION
                                                                                     I
Apparent inclination of principal
..!!.!,s of object from horizontal       QODE 62-63-64 CIVILIAN OCCUPATION           I
        X •Variable
        t
        0 +90 to 60
                                         Dictionary of Occupational Titles,
                                         Vol. II, 2nd Edition, PP• XIX-XXVI.
                                         u.s. Department of Labor, Bureau of
                                                                                     I
        l ..60 to 30
        2 .+30 to 10
        3 +10 to O
                                         Employment Security. U.S. Government
                                         Printing Office, Washington, D. C., 1949.
                                         See PP• XIX-XXVI.
                                                                                     I
        4 O
        5 0 to -10
        6 -10 to -30
                                                                                     I
        7 -JO to -60
        8 -60 to -90                                                                 I
        9


CODE 65 SERVICE                      CODE 66 DUTY
                                                                                     I
X
y
                                     X
                                     y
                                                                                     I
0
1
     Army
     Navy
                                     0   Pilot
                                     1 Weather tech.                                 I
2    Marine                          2 Radar tech.
.3
4
     Air Force
     Coast Guard
                                     3 Tower op.
                                     4 Balloon obs.                                  I
5    Merchant                        5 Tech. spec.
6
7
     Commercial Air
     CAA
                                     6 Guards, lookouts
                                     ? Ground or deck crews                          I
8    Gov•t. Contractor               8 Navig. or bombardier
9    Other                           9 Other
                                                                                     I
                                  294
                                                                                     I
                                                                                     I
I
I
I   CODE 67 RANK EQUIVALENT              CODE 76 EVALUATION OF OBSERVER RELIABILITY
I   X Officer
    y
                     X
                     y
                                                    X
                                                    y

I   0
    1
    2
        Lt. 2nd
        Lt. 1st
        Capt.
                     0
                     1
                     2
                         Private
                         Private, 1st Cls.
                         Corp.
                                                    0 Complete
                                                    1 Quite
                                                    2 Fair

I   J
    4
    5
        Maj.
        Lt. Col.
        Col.
                     J
                     4
                     5
                         Serg.
                         S. 'I. Serg.
                         M. Serg.
                                                    J Doubtful
                                                    4 Poor
                                                    5 Not
I   6
    7
    8
        Brig. Gen.
        Maj. Gen.
        Lt. Gen.
                     6
                     7
                     8
                         Warrant Off.
                         Chief Warrant
                                                    6
                                                    7
                                                    8
I   9   General      9                              9 Can't be judged


I   CODE 77 EVALUATION OF REPORT RELIABILITY
            X
                                                 CODE 78 PREL,RgNARY IDEN'IIFICATION
                                                   X   Possibly
I           y
            0
            1
              Complete
              Quite
                                                   y
                                                   0 Balloon
                                                   1 Astronomical
I           2 Fair
            3 Doubtful
                                                   2 Aircraft
                                                   J Light phenomenon
            4 Poor                                 4 Birds
I           5 Not
            6
                                                   5 Clouds, dust, etc.
                                                   6 Rocket or missile
            7                                      7 Psychological manifestations
I           8
            9 Can't be judged
                                                   8 Electromagnetic phenomenon
                                                   9 Other

I   CODE 79-80 FINAL IDENTIFICATION

I       X Probably
        y
        0 Balloon
I       l Astronomical
        2 Aircraft
        J Light Phenomenon
I       4 Birds
        5 Clouds, dust, etc.
        6 Reeke~-eP-mieeile Insufficientinformation
I       7 Psychological manifestations
        8 i~ee~Femagaetie-paeaemeeeR Unknown
        9 Other
I
I
I                                 295 and 296
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
    EXHIBIT B5
I
I   WORK SHEET


I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I    297 and 298
    I
    I
    I                                    WORK SHEET
    I   Observer's
          Data               Punched
    I     Sheet
         Question
                              Card
                             Column      Code                      Descri;etion

    I                          l*
                               2                                        Incident serial
                               3                      Serial No.        number
    I                          4
                               6                      Serial No.        Insertion
    I                          7
                               8                      Dal
                               9
    I        1.               10
                              11
                                                      Month
                              12                      Year              Observed
    I                         13
                              14                      Day:
                              1
    I         2.              16
                              17
                                                      Month           Re:eorted

    I                         18
                              19
                              20
                                                      Day
                                                      Month             Rec I d ATIC
    I                         21
                              22
                              23
                                                      Hrs.              Time of observation
                                                                        Greenwich C. T.
    I         3.              24
                              25*
                              2
                                                      Min.
                                                      Time Units        Duration of
                                                                        observation
    I         4.              27
                              2*
                              29
                                                      Duration


    I                         30
                              31                      Latitude
                              32*
    I         ,.
                              33
                              34                                      Location
                              35
    I                         36
                              37
                              38
                                                      Longitude


    I                         39
                              40                      Cosine latitude

    I   ~·   Denotes separate code key is needed.

I   I
                                           299

    I
                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                       I
Observer's
  Data                    Punched
                                                                                                       I
  Sheet                    Card
 Question                 Column             Code                                Description           I
      6.             41*                         Where observer was
_ __,,1,..,,._B_.____,..4~~,.,.....---------==M.-ovi_n~ - Stopped
      10.                  43*                                How observed
                                                                                                       I
                    12a. 44*
                    12c. 45*
                    12e. 46*
                                                              Sound
                                                              Color
                                                              Number
                                                                                                       I
                    12g. 47*
              12b. 19      49*
                                                              Light-color
                                                              Speed
                                                              Shape
                                                                               Appearance
                                                                               Description             I
              12b. 19    50*
            12d. lfie.20 51*
             i2r. 14r. 5°2*
                                                              a/b
                                                              Size
                                                              Light brightness
                                                                                                       I
4. 12h. 14. 18. 19 54*
    1 .
                            53*                               Angular velocity
                                                              An ar acceleration Motion
                                                              Describe appearance
                                                                                                       I
                                *
 13. 14. 16
      17.
                                                              Describe disappearance
                                                              Initial elevation
                                                              Final elevc:.tion        Elevation
                                                                                                       I
                             9
__l_,,2,;;.,;i,;...•~21.,...;....____6,.,,0_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _A,.,.1..,.t_itude, 1000 ft.
     18. 19.                         61*                      Object orientation
                                                                                            Altitude   I
                           63
                                        2*
                                                                                                       I
                           64                                 Civilian occupation
                                                                                            Observer
                                                                                                       I
                                                              Service occupation
                           69                                                                          I
                           70
                           71
                           72                                                                          I
                           73
                           74
                           75                                                                          I
                           76-:;:.                      Observer
                           """'7"""7--~---------'""R"'"'e-pu:ct
                           7B*                          Preliminary
                                                                                    Evaluation
                                                                                                       I
                                                                                    Identification
                                                              Final
                                                                                                       I
* Denotes separate code key is needed.
                                                                                                       I
                                               300
                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                       I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
         EXHIBIT B6
I
I   CODES FOR CARD BIBLE


I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I         301 and 302
I
I                                               CODES
I       CODE 1.    GENERAL
I          a. These cards (and the corresponding WORK SHEETS) contain data from
              several sources. Columns referenced to the u. s. Air Force Technical
I             Information Sheet (Form A) must have at least one entry. If no data
              are available for any column, the Y (or 12 punch) should be used.

I          b.     Columns 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45,
                  46, 47, 48, 49, 50, and $1 are calculated from data appearing in the
                  u. s. Air Force Technical Information Sheet {Form A). If the basic
I                 data for these calculations are not available, the appropriate columns
                  are left blank.

I          c.     If a number in any column is used to enter data, then X (or 11 punch)
                  qualifies the data as indicated in the Code for the specific column,

I         CODE 7 SIGHTING IDENTIFICATION
           {Ti.1is column may or may not                      CODE 22 LOCAL SUN TIME
I           contain multiple punches)                 (Refers to date of a.c.T. observation)
    X                                                           X
I   y
    0
                                                                y
                                                                0    Same day
    1 All sightings                                             1 Previous day
I   2 Unit sightings, all observers
    3 Unit sightings, single observers
                                                                2
                                                                3
    4 Unit sightings, multiple observers                         4
I   5 Object sightings
    6
                                                                5
                                                                6
    7                                                           7
I   8
    9
                                                                8
                                                                 9

I           CODE 23-26 LOCAL SUN TIME
            {Calculated from G.C.T.,
I         date, latitude, and longitude)        CODE 27 LATITUDE        CODE 31 LONGITUDE
                                                X South Latitude        X    East Longitude
I                                              y
                                                0
                                                                        y
                                                                        0
                                                1                       1
I                                               2
                                                3
                                                                        2
                                                                        3
                                                4                       4
I                                              6
                                                5                       5
                                                                        6
                                                7                       7
I                                               8
                                                9
                                                                         8
                                                                         9

I                                               303

I
                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                   I
                                    Punched
U. s. Air Force Technical
Information Sheet Question
                                     Card
                                    Column           Code           Description
                                                                                                   I
                                      3
                                                                                                   I
                                      39
                                      4q
                                      41
                                                                              Hour
                                                                              Angle
                                                                                                   I
                                      42*
                                      43*
                                      4~
                                                                           Angle of
                                                                           Elevation
                                                                                                   I
                                      45
                                      46
                                      47J,f-
                                                                           of the
                                                                           Sun
                                                            Group Classification
                                                                                                   I
                                      48
                                      49.
                                     50
                                                                           sun
                                                                           Bearing
                                                                           Angle
                                                                                                   I
                                      51*
                                     52*
                                        3
                                                             Time Units
                                                                                 Duration
                                                                                                   I
   5.
  15.
                                      54
                                      55*
                                       s&
                                                                                 of Observation
                                                                Group Classification               I
                                                                How Observed
  16a.
  16b.
                                       57~,f,
                                       SB-ii-
                                                                Sound
                                                                Object Color                       I
  16b. 17.                             59*                      Light Color      Physical
       ------------~:,":'"'--------:c==-0-=1"'"0-r--,is-Gr-o-up
                                      60*
                                                                Classification                     I
  19.                                  61*                      Number
  lla. llb. 39.                        62*
                                      6y1-
                                                                Sp
__1~7~•;,....;..l_B~._24~•;;.......,...-------,.:;'-----------,S~h-a.p_e__       Description
                                                                                                   I
  llf. 21. 22. 24.                     64*                      Size
  10. lle.
  5. 11, 17. 20.
                                      65*
                                      66-ii-
                                                                Light Brightness
                                                                Angular Velocity        Motion
                                                                                                   I
  33.                                 67*                       Angular Acceleration
  29. 31, 1.                          68*
                                      69*
                                                                Appearance Bearing
                                                                Disappearance Bearing
                                                                                                   I
                                       70*                      Initial Elevation
                                      11~1-
                                          *
                                                                Final Elevation
                                                                 rientation
                                                                                     Description   I
                                       73➔1-                    Maneuvers
  41.                                  74*
                                       75*
                                                                Observer Occupation
                                                                Observer  Rating     Observer
                                                                                                   I
                                       7&.-
                                       77*
                                                                Report Rating
                                                                Reliability Group
                                                                Classification
                                                                                                   I
                                       78-if                    Final Identification
                                                                                                   I
* Denotes that separate code key is needed.
                                               304
                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                   I
I
I                                                           CODE 48-51 SUN BEARING ANGLE
I                  CODE 47 GROUP CLASSIFICATION
              (Derived from the angle of elevation)
                                                                  (Calculated)
                                                             CODE 51 SUN BEARING ANGLE

I   X
    y
                                                             X East of the Meridian
                                                             y
                                                             0
    0
I   l -79,99° to+ 79.99°
    2 +80,00° to +89,99°
                                                             1
                                                             2
    3 +90,00° to +100.00°                                    3
I   4 +100,01° to 130.00°
    5 +130.01° to +180,00 and -180,00° to -100,01°
                                                             4
                                                             5
    6 -100.00° to -90.01°                                    6
I   7 -90.00° to -80,00°
    8
                                                              7
                                                              8
     9                                                        9
I
         CODE 52 DURATION Tl1'iE UNITS           CODE 55 DURATION GROUP CLASSIFICATION
I        X                                            X
         y                                            y
I        0 Days
         1 Hours
                                                      0 5 second and less
                                                      l 6 - 10 seconds
         2 Minutes                                    2 11 - 30 seconds
I        3 Seconds
         4
                                                      3 31 - 60 seconds
                                                      4 61 seconds - 5 minutes
         5                                            5 6 - 30 minutes
I        6
         7
                                                      6 Over 30 minutes
                                                       7
         8                                             8
I        9                                             9


I   CODE 56 OBSERVATION METHOD              CODE 57 SOUND             CODE 58 OBJECT COLOR
          X Variable                  X Variable                   X Variable
I         y
          0    Naked eye
                                      y
                                      0 Motors
                                                                   y
                                                                   0 Metallic
          1 Eye glasses               1 Jets or rockets            1 Light., glow., luminous
I         2 Window
          3 Windshield
                                      2 Explosion
                                      3 Unlike aircraft
                                                                    2 Red
                                                                    3 Orange
          4 Binocular                 4 Hiss, swishing, whining     4 Yellow
I         5 Telescope
          6 Theodolite
                                      5 Rumbling
                                      6 Humming or buzzing
                                                                    5 Green
                                                                    6 Blue
          7 Radar                     7 None                        7 Violet
I         8 Photographic
          9 Other
                                      8
                                      9 Other
                                                                    8 Black
                                                                    9 White

I
I
I                                               305

I
                                                                                          I
                                                                                          I
CODE 59 LIGHT COLOR          CODE 60 COLOR GROUP CLASSIFICATION       CODE 61 NUNBER      I
        X Variable
        y
        0 White
                                       X Light glow
                                       y
                                       0    White
                                                                      X
                                                                      y
                                                                      0    1
                                                                                          I
        1 Black
        2 Grey
        3 Red
                                       1
                                       2
                                       3
                                            Metallic
                                            Red
                                            Orange
                                                                      1
                                                                      2 .3
                                                                      3 4
                                                                           2
                                                                                          I
        4 Orange
        5 Yellow
        6 Green
                                       4
                                       5
                                       6
                                            Yellow
                                            Green
                                            Blue
                                                                      4 5
                                                                      5 6
                                                                      6 7 -10
                                                                                          I
        7 Blue
        8 Violet
        9 Other
                                       7
                                       8
                                       9
                                            Violet
                                            Black
                                            Other
                                                                      1 11-20
                                                                      8 21-30
                                                                      9 31 or more
                                                                                          I
                                                         CODE 64 SUBTENDED VISUAL ANGLE
                                                                                          I
  CODE 62 SPEED                 CODE 63 SHAPE
                       X Variable
                                                           (Referred to sun diameter)
                                                        X Decreased in size
                                                                                          I
Variable
Hovering, stationary
                       y
                         0   Ellipse
                             Rocket
                                                        y
                                                        0 0.1                             I
Less than 100 mph        1                              1 0.2
100 - 400 mph
More than 400 mph
                         2
                         3
                             Conventional aircraft
                             Unconventional aircraft
                                                        2 o.5
                                                         3 0.15                           I
Meteor-like            4     Meteor, comet               4 1.0
Not stated             5
                       6
                             Lenticular
                             Conical
                                                         5 1.5
                                                         6 2.0                            I
                       7     Teardrop                    7 4.o
Other
                       8
                         9
                             Flame, t ails, fire
                             Fire
                                                         8   4.0 to 10.0
                                                         9 Other                          I
CODE 65 LIGHT BRIGHTNESS (Intensity)                   CODE 66 ANGULAR VELOCITY           I
X Decreased
y
                                                  X Variable
                                                  y                                       I
0 Sunlight on mirror                              O Zero
l Sunlight on aluminum
2 Sunlight on plaster
                                                  1 Very slow, 1° per second
                                                  2 Slow, 3° per second                   I
3 Sunlight on stone                               3 Moderate, 6° per second
4 Sunlight on soil
5 Brighter than moon
                                                  4 Rapid, 12° per second
                                                  5 Very fast, 30° second                 I
6 Like moon                                       6 Extremely fast, 90° per second
7 Duller than moon
8 Barely visible
                                                  7 More than 90° per second
                                                  8
                                                                                          I
9 Other                                           9 Other
                                                                                          I
                                                                                          I
                                           306
                                                                                          I
                                                                                          I
I --
1
 I                CODE 67 ANGULAR ACCELERATION
                  (Change in angular velocity)              CODE 68 APPBARJ:J TCE BEARING
                                                                                   1




 I                X Variable
                  y
                                                                           X
                                                                           y

 I                0 Zero, V • constant
                  l Increasing slowly
                  2 Decreasing slowly
                                                                           O N
                                                                           l NE
                                                                           2   E

I                 3 Increasing fast
                  4 Decreasing fast
                  5 Increasing very fast
                                                                           3 SE
                                                                           4 s
                                                                           5 SW
I                 6 Decreasing very fast
                  7
                  8
                                                                           6 W
                                                                           7 NW
                                                                           8
I                 9                                                        9


I          CODE 69 DISAPPEARANCE BEARING
                                                            CODE 70-71 ELEVATION
                                                       WITH RESPECT TO GROUND 1 DEGREES

I            X
             y
                      Disappeared suddenly                 Initial                         Final
             0        N                                X Variable                      X Variable
I            l
              2
                      Ne
                      E
                                                       y
                                                       0 0-9
                                                                                       y
                                                                                       0   0-9
             3 Se                                      l 10-19                         1   10-19
I            4 s
             5 SW
                                                       2 20-29
                                                       3 30-39
                                                                                       2
                                                                                       3
                                                                                           20-29
                                                                                           30-39
             6        w                                4 40-49                         4   40-49
I            7 NW
             8
                                                       5 50-59
                                                       6 60-69
                                                                                       5
                                                                                       6
                                                                                           50-59
                                                                                           60-69
             9                                         7 70-79                         7   70-79
I                                                      8 80-89
                                                       9
                                                                                       8
                                                                                       9
                                                                                           80-89

I        CODE 72          OBJECT ORIENTATION
       Apparent inclination of principal
I       axis of object from horizontal CODE 73 MANEUVERS                 CODE 74 OBSERVER OCCUPATION
                  X Variable                       X                 X
I                 y
                  0 +90° to 60°
                                                   y
                                                   0
                                                                     Y Civilian, occupation r.ot stated
                                                                     O Army, military
                  l +60° to 30°                    l                 l NavY, military
I                 2 +30° to 10°
                  3 +10° to 0°
                                                   2
                                                   3
                                                                     2 Marine, military
                                                                     3 Air force, military
                  4 oo                             4                 4 Coast guard, military
I                 5 OQ to -10°
                  6 -10° to -30°
                                                   5
                                                   6
                                                                     5 Merchant marine, military
                                                                     6 Commercial air, civilian
                  7 -30° to -60°                   7                 7 CAA, civilian
I                 8
                  9
                    -60° to -90°                   8
                                                   9
                                                                     8 Government contractor, civilian
                                                                     9 Civilian, other
I                                                307

I
                                                                                             I
                                                                                             I
DE 75 EVALU.aTiot! OF OBSERV};R a:~LIABILITY     CODE 76 EVALUA'rION OF RSPORT RELIABILITY   I
         X
         y
                                                            X
                                                            y                                I
         0 Complete                                         0 Complete   I



          l
          2
              Quite
              Fair
                                                            1
                                                            2
                                                              Quite
                                                              Fair                           I
          3   Doubtful                                      3 Doubtful
          4
          5
              Poor
              Not
                                                            4 Poor
                                                            5 Not                            I
          6                                                 6
          7
          8
                                                            7
                                                            8                                I
          9 Cannot be judged                                9 Cannot be judged
                                                                                             I
     CODE 77 RELllBILITY GROUP CLASSIFICATION
      (Based on observer and report ratings)                CODE 78 FINAL IDENTIFICATION     I
                                                           X Probably
  Excellent (Observer O or 1 and Reoort O or 1)
  Good (Observer O or 1, Report 2, 3, or 4;
                                                           y
                                                           0 Balloon
                                                                                             I
    Observer 2, 3, or 4, Report O or l; Observer           1 Astronomical
    2, Report 2)
  Doubtful (Observer O or 1, Report 5 or 9;
                                                           2 Aircraft
                                                           3 Light phenomenon
                                                                                             I
    Observer 2, Report 3, 4, S, or 9; Observer             4 Birds
    3 or 4, Report 2, 3, 4, S, or 9; Observer S
    or 9, Report o, 1, 2, 3, or 4)
                                                           5 Clouds, dust, etc.
                                                           6 Insufficient information
                                                                                             I
  Poor (Observer 5, 9, or Y, Report 5, 9, or Y)            7 Psychological manifestations
                                                           8 Unknown
                                                           9 Other
                                                                                             I
                                                                                             I
                                                                                             I
                                                                                             Ii

                                                                                             I
                                                                                             I
                                                                                             I
                                                                                             I
                                           308
                                                                                             I
                                                                                             I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
    EXHIBIT B7
I
I   CARD BIBLE


I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I    309 and 310
I
I
I                                         CARD BIBLE


I   u. s. Air Force Technical
                                   Punched
                                    Card
I   Information Sheet Question     Column
                                        1
                                                    Code             Description


I                                       2
                                        3
                                                           Serihl
                                                             No.            Identification
                                        4                                   Serial
I                                       5
                                        6
                                                           Sub­
                                                           Serial No.
                                                                            Number
                                                           Sighting          Identification
I                                    9
                                        8
                                                           Serial           Incident
                                    10                     No.              Serial
I                                   11
                                    12
                                                                            Number
                                    13                     Day
I      1.                           :i1
                                    15                     Month            Observed
                                    1
I                                   17
                                    18
                                                           Year
                                                                            Time of
                                    19                     Hours            Observation
I                                   20
                                    21                     Minutes
                                                                            Greenwich
                                                                             C. T•
                                                           Key
I                                   23
                                    24                     Hours
                                                                            Local
                                                                            Sun
                                                                            Time
I                                   26
                                    27*
                                                           Minutes
                                    28.
I                                   29
                                    30
                                                           Latitude
                                    3Hr                                     Location
I      4.
                                    32
                                    33.                    Longitude
                                    34
I                                   35
                                    3~                     Regional Area
                                    31                     Strategic Area
I   ~" Denotes that separate code key is needed.
I      Card Deck No._ is identified by an X (or 11 Punch) in Column_.

I
I                                             311

I
                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                   I
                                       Punched
U. s. Air Force Technical
Infonnation Sheet Question
                                        Card
                                       Column            Code             Description
                                                                                                   I
                                         3
                                                                                                   I
                                         39
                                         4q
                                         41
                                                                                 Hour
                                                                                 Angle
                                                                                                   I
                                         42*
                                         43*                                     Angle of          I
                                         ~
                                                                                 Elevation
                                                                                 of the
                                         46                                      Sun
                                                                 Group Classification
                                                                                                   I
                                                                                  sun
                                                                                 Bearing
                                                                                 Angle
                                                                                                   I
                                                                  Time Units
                                                                                Duration
                                                                                                   I
    l.5.
                                         54
                                         5.si
                                         56i
                                                                                of Observation
                                                                 Group Classification
                                                                 How Observed
                                                                                                   I
  16a.               57*                                         Sound
                                                                                                   I
  16b.               58-ii-                                      Object Color
  16b. 17.
______......________ 59"-                                        Light Color
                                                                        ___
                                                                         oup    Physical
                                                                                                   I
                                      __.6r!◊*,..--------c-01;.;..o-r_Gr




                                                                 Classification
   19.                                   61*                     Number
   lla. llb. 39.
   17. lB. 24.
                                         62*
                                         63-lf,
                                                                 Speed
                                                                 Shape
--=it"':::1,..,1:~.~21=-.----:2~2~.--:s24r-.-----~6"4-*--------=s-=-i--ze_ __
                                                                                Description        I
   10, lle.
   5. 11, 17. 20.
                                         65*
                                         66-ii-
                                                                 Light Brightness
                                                                 Angular Velocity      Motion
                                                                                                   I
   33.                                   67*                     Angular Acceleration
   29. 31. 1.
   23. JO, 31. 2.
                                         68i
                                         69-ii'.
                                                                 Appearance Bearing
                                                                 Disappearance Bearing
                                                                                                   I
                                         7◊*                     Initial Elevation
   31 • 32 •                             71*
                                         72*
                                                                 Final Elevation
                                                                 Orientation
                                                                                     Description   I
                                         73*                     Maneuvers
   41.                                   74*
                                         7$i
                                                                 Observer Occupation
                                                                 Observer Rating    Observer
                                                                                                   I
                                         7&t-                    Report Rating
                                         77*                     Reliability Group
                                                                 Classification
                                                                                                   I
                                         78-ii-                  Final Identification
                                                                                                   I
* Denotes that separate code key is needed.
                                                   312
                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                   I
 I
 I
 I
 I
 I
 I
 I
 I
I
I
           EXHIBIT B8
I
I    EXAMPLE OF AN IBM CARD


I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I           313 and 314

I
----------------------
                   ~         ~                                                                                                             ~     ~                                                                                   ~           r    z     ~    r     ►      o ~ ~ o ~ ~
                   ~         c                                       Observed                                  Lati-                       co    ;;'                     Angle.of                              Duration              g                ~     if   CD    ::,    ,. ::, g II'" ui" 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .g ~ Cl i ! ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10
                   Q     ~                                                                                     tude                        ~     G                          Eleva•                           of Obser-               ~ ~ cr ]                    ;:- cg
                   z- c t-·                                                                                                                ::,a:ii
                                                                                                                                                -·
                                                                                                                                                                                •
                                                                                                                                                                            t1on o .
                                                                                                                                                                                          f                         .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 vat1on                n ..ct                    CD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Q"0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ..    <1         m :c <11: :10,
                                                                                                                                           0                                                                                                                                                                         1
                   c
                   3
                             2.                                                      G C
                                                                                      ••
                                                                                                                                           -
                                                                                                                                           ►~
                                                                                                                                                 n                         the Sun                                                     !!..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -· ► a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 "'nil<,.~~C:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        i"      ~     ~
                   er        Z                                                       Time                                                  ""    ~                                                                                               ""              3:" n :, o O !- :,
                   .,        c                                                                                                             oa                                                                                                                    :son:!.                                    __       c
                   ~         g.
                             Cl
                             .,
                                                            O~-<
                                                            00ct
                                                            '<~a
                                                                                          I                   o::i:
                                                                                                               (DC
                                                                                                              'E!E._
                                                                                                                                           00
                                                                                                                                                                          O::I:C'l
                                                                                                                                                                          CDCO
                                                                                                                                                                         ~g_c
                                                                                                                                                                                                             _.OC'l
                                                                                                                                                                                                               3CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                             c,Cc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ::i" 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 •DOJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -g
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        g             ii·g.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -·-            0.

                                                                     ~               i!:                      :;;                                                         :o""                               c:i·                                                      g::.                           .:t'"<
                                                                                     sE                       "'!-                                                        111
                                                                                                                                                                                    !-                       :?.:,                                                           ~
                                                                                     Ill O                       ;                                                                  ;                        :
                                                                                          C/1



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I          I         11',/t/i/i/t(t/i/i.l

        /    I '       ' '   I '          ' ; •• " 11 ,: !,, " ,s ,: " ,a 19 m:·;," 1' 1) 2( :J " 29 :J 3' 12,•: ,, "E                          •; 03 JS" "42 '3            ~       •5 ,& ., ,s,,s :J 51 51 5) s., s: Ii ))              ";9rt1~1q.c1~pj~Ljl-1'31"1''1'TT 1' '1                                   8 9

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1:11
            I                                                                                                                                                      aJ                                                                    OC                                                                                 X
            ooI oII ao;o I oo~ I oo:o I ~ c:D aooooooocD010 oCoooEosCooaonO' oooooaoonil c oCo oooooc aoao oooooil oo                                                                                                                                                                                                       >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            s=:
            ; ; ; ; ; ; I ;                   i;
                            'i ;' ;' 1;J ~ 1; 1;:~· ;' ;s :1:1'1' C',' \' \' 21a',' 1,' \9 ;c J,' ~21;: C:,: ',' j' ',' ',' ;c ;' ;: ;, ~ ~ ;1 \' ~ ~ c; 511 ~ \' ;• ;c ;: \' \' '{ 'i ',' ~ 'i' ',' '{ 'i \' '{ '; '{ ',' ',' 'i' ',' ,1'{ ;' ;a ;s;                                                                       ,:j


                                                    ~                                           :~~ ~ '.; :, ;,; ; ;1;; :.: ~~ :,,; ;; ;,;,;;:,~1.                                                                                       2;:;; :~ ;,~;,,'.;; :, ::'.}, ~ 1
w                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           t"
.....                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1:11   1:11
u,
            ~; ! '. '. '.' !:: '. ,i; ! '. .'.~ ,; ,'. ;j'.                                                 ,'.; :, ~:. ~;;
                                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                                               ,;, :,;
                                                                                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ::i::
            3 3 3 3 3 3l 3i3 3 3 l/3 3 3 3 3 3 3 313 3 3 3 3 3C 3 3 3 3 31\3 3 3 3 3 3 313 3 3 J □ D 3 3\'c 3 JC 3 3 3 3 3 3 □ 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 :i O3 3 C3 3 3 ~
Pl                                          1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1-rj   H
;::s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   tp
0..
w
                                                     I                                                                                                                  -
            4 4 4 4 4 4 ,: 4/4 4 4 4i4 4 4 4 4 4 I ~ 14 4 4 4 4 E4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 C4 4 4 4 4: 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 ~ ~ 4 4 ~ C4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 :
                            I       '
                                                                                                                                t                                                                                                                                                                                           >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   t--3
.....       1   ~ -: .; ~ t' i F. ·g :: 11 L' 1, ;: 1~ :r i'i ;f. F! :·:·:~· ~? (.~ 2! .:5 2V 21 2i: ::1 :;o jl rr:i ~.! :!5 jC ~i J~ :E 4: .;;
                                                            1
                                                                                                                                                                     !,( .;3 4-: ~:> !C !7 ,).;~ 50 51 ~2 53 ~.; 5~ ~,[; 51 58 ~S :-'JC                 C.: G CCC b [::            1,   i i I 1· ?~ i· ;; i JS t C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   tp
            5 5 5 5 5 51s:s55 s!s sn 5 5 5 51: 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 sls 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 sm 5 5 5 sls 5 5 5 sD 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 :, 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5;
CJ'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            tp
                         i        I                                           I                                                 I
            s 6 sIs s E z;s s s s's s 6 s,s s s s:s s s s Es s s 6 E 6 616 6 GD s s s 6 s s 6 sf. 6J6 s s s s s s Gs s s s s s s El, s s s s 6 s Es cs s s 6 s s
                                                                                                                                                                   C
                                                                                                                                                                     sC                        I                                                                                                                            s=:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   00



            ;I;; ;;;;, ; ~• ~!~ ;;;j;;; ~•j;' ~ ~                                                            ~ I;' ;t~ ;• ~ 7~ ~ ;; ;~;; ~; ~ t; 5
                                                                                                                                                 ;I~~~~·;: C;; ~; ~;;;; ~;;;;; ~ ;· ;' ~ ;7;; ;                                                                                                                             ()
                                                                                                   1



                                              i             I                 I           I
                                                                                                    : ; ;,      ;' 7l

                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ~
                            :a ea 8;~ B 8 8;~ 8 2 E 2 e8 8 B sl:s 8 g 8 8 s 8 8 f: 2 8 8 8 8 8 2 8 g 8 8 8 E 8 s C818!Sieisi5!618l~]E!8lEle!8!6~v! 818 8
            8 8 8 ti~ i BBB SI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              d
                ~999~;~,;~~ ·c i;::;;;..s ::~;~~-a~·3~lg; ;;;";;~~;;,~;~t:·~~;g\~ s;ts~s~-9~~' s~~icc~ ~~~.·
                                                                              1
                ')·•                  •       l.,,'                  •~.• -       ~••11   ;.     •··•· 0   ---;····~--••;.,'···•                ···1·"•               ''1••••·•••~ti:~~r-c•cr:.r•·                                       ·•-·"•r··~•.·r,                           ,          1-~·-:;•            ·1rr


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2
                ~ 3 :. :· 7 ; ~ i~ ~- ~:                        ,J   ~- ;_'.~; ~i;    ~ ;~ > ;: ;~ ~J ;t ;1 .·: -~ ;.! Jl ;2b3 ;.;              ~~ ~c- -:~ .:-. ~! :: t~} ~ ~5 :.s j~;t!:i!;~ ;i ~: ;j               ~I;;; !I~           ~~- ~9 L :; 6~; [ z- [ ~- ;, -~ ;, :, ; ~ t ;~ ·c                        ; ;5 6
                       _.!.!. 1VI 7h , 27

                             I'           I
                                                                                                                                    ::i:
                                                                                                                                    C
                                                                                                                                                               ::i:
                                                                                                                                                               C
                                                                                                                                                                                                        ::i:            /!IY~YVVYVIIYY
                                              -;-                                                                         .                             . .    ::,
                                                                                                                                                                                              .
                                                                                          r:lrlf                                    ll
                                  ~                                                                                      0                             0
                                                                                                                                                               ~                                        ~
                                                                                                                                                                                              "'0 I§.a.
                                                                                                                                                                                              . -                                                                                               .,.
                                              n
                              "':!" a:.                                                                                  "';;                          "'0                                                                                                                                      0
                              ;·
                                              a                                                                          ..                            .. .!?:                                ~

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                C/1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ~

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      . ;· !!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ~




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 r --
                                                                                                                                                               ~                                        ~
                              CD                                                                                                                                                              C/1       ..                                                       ►           ;-                 ~           ~
                              .'ii: .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ::,                                  "Cl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ::c                                                                    <
                                              ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 "'C '[ a                             g_

                              -;_- "
                              ::,
                                              ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     !!'.       n0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -  ~     m ~ nn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ;o    .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -;-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            'ii:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ::,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ::,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .,,.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .< n!!. 0 "'. ~ < . f a2..
                                                                                                                                                                                                Sun                      0.,.                                                                                        I
                              ;;·             z                                                 Local                                                                                                                                           Q                      ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      !..
                                                                                                                                                                                              Bear­                      C/1                                     !..                            C     ii"            C:
                                              C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             n

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      = ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               "Cl                   ::,
                                              3                                                  Sun                    Langi•                          Hour                                   ing                                              C'l                                                   !:
                              0
                              ::,
                                              .,.
                                              ~
                                                        I                                 I Time                         tude                           Angle                                 Angle.                     .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         a. Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                "Cl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      . .. '< "'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      "Cl


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      a.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ~-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ::,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ::,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ii"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ::,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ~           a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ::,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     a.
                                                                                                                                                                                                               I                                                                                "· -c
    I
11
    I
    I
    I
    I
    I
    I
    I
    I
    I   FOR Off~(L'\t [St ONlY
    I       (Af[t ] ~{p-] 6 )
    I
I   I
    I
II
ii



    I
    I
    I
    I
    I
