 Authority:

NND 857011
 ,. '     1 •




                                                           ...
                                             LO.Alf DOCUDIM'
                                                                        l

                                    T/S COITIOL 10.
                                                      -
                                                      'f
                                                           2-73.frl
                                                           ·   ----
                                    OFYICE TO WHI~H LQlHD AFOill-2.A.
                                                          •
                                                                 _ _ _ _ ____,__~   I   - ■   I   ·-




        89A                         DiT! DUi IN AFOIM-C/DD _,l_l_ul;r ~-~52



              PLEASE RETURN THIS DOCUMF.JfT. OR DATE SPIClfliD !fK>VI TO AFOIN...C/DD. ROOII

              • IO. 50116 J.TTIITIOlh M' WM! COlffftOL 01'FICD



                                                                                                       •




When the attached docum•nt 1s withdrawn
the clses1f1cat1on of thi• .. ahe•t wil1 be
chan~•d to UlfCLASSIFIKD in accordance
with PAR 250, ll'R 205-1.i
                    ...




                            Air Intelligence Report No. 100-203-79.




                  ANALYSIS OF FLYING OB ECT INCIDENTS IN THE U. S.




                            Air Intelligence Division Study No. 203
                                       10 December 1948.

                  Directorate of Intelligence and Office of Naval Intelligence




                                       DISTRIBUTION ''C''




WARNING: This document contains information affecting the national defense of the United States
within the meaning of the Espionage Act, 60 U.S.C., 31 and 32, as amended. Its transmission or
the revelation of its contents in any manner to an . unauthorized person is prohibited by law.
Reproduction of the intelligence in this publication, under the provisions of Army Regulation
380-5, is authorized for United States military agencies provided the source is indicated.




     Directorate of Intelligence                                       Office of Naval Intelligence
Headquarters United States Air Force                                         Navy Department

                                        Washington, D. C,

                                         DECLASSIFIED
                                                                                                              ..

                  ANALYSIS OF FLYING OB ECT lliCIDENTS IN THE U. S.



                                                          INDEX

                                                                                                         Page

SUM:MARY AND CONCLUSIONS . . . . . . . . . . , . . . . . . . . . . . . , . .                              1
APPENDIX "A" - ANALYSIS OF FLYING OB                          CT INCIDENTS IN THE U. S.                                 It

                                                                                                          3

                  Iritroduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                               3
                  Some Aspects Regarding Flying Object Incidents                                          3
                  Possible Origin of Unusual Flying Objects . . . . . . . . '
                  Possible Reasons or Tactics for the Use of Soviet
                                                                                        ..                4

                    Unconventional Aircraft Over the U. S. . . . . . .               ..... ..... 6
                  Conclusion . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .                                           6

APPENDIX "B" - REPORTED SIGHTINGS OF FLYING                              CTS AS OF
                                                                                                     ' • 7

APPENDIX "C,, - SELECTED REPORTS OF FLYING OBI CT INCIDENTS                            .. .               8        •
APPENDIX "D" - FLYING WING TYPE AIRCRAFT                                                                 17

                  Germany . . .                                                                          17
                  Great Britain                                                                    , .   21
                                                      ...                                     ..
                                  •   •   ♦   •   •   •   •


                  United States                                                           '              23




                                                                                                                   ••




- i -
                                                MP l!Clt!,



                           ANALYSIS OF FLYING OB ECT INCIDENTS IN THE U. S.


                                          SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS


                                                   PROBLEM
        1. TO EXA:MlNE pattern of tactics of "Flying Saucers" (hereinafter referred to as flying objects)
        and to develop conclusions as to the possibility of existence.

                                         FACTS AND DISCUSSION
        2. A DETAILED discussion of information bearing on the problem as set forth above 1s attached
        as Appendix "A". The main points established therein are summarized below.
        3. THE FREQUENCY of reported incidents, the similarity in many of the characteristics attributed
        to the observed objects and the quality of observers considered as a whole, support the contention
        that some type of flying object has been observed. Approximately 210 incidents have been reported.
•       Among the observers reporting on such incidents are trained and experienced U.S. Weather Bureau
        personnel, USAF rated officers, experienced civilian pilots, technicians associated with various re­
        search projects and technicians employed. by commercial airlines.
        4. THE POSSIBILITY that reported observations of flying objects over the U.S. were influenced by
        previous sightings of unidentified phenomena in Europe, particularly over Scandinavia 1n 1948, •and
        that the observers reporting such incidents may have been interested in obtaining personal pubUcity
        have been considered as possible explanations. However, these posslb111t1es seem to be improbable
        when certain selected reports such as the one from U.S. Weather Bureau at Richmond are examined.
        During observations of weather balloons at the Richmond Bureau, one well trained observer has
        sighted strange metallic disks on three occasions and another observer has sighted a similar object
        on one occasion. The last observation of un1denttf1ed objects was in Apr1i, 1947. On all four occa­
        sions the weather balloon and the unidentified objects were in view through the theodolite. These
        observations at the Richmond Bureau occurred several months before publ1city on the flying saucers
        appeared in a U.S. newspaper.
        5. DESCRIPTIONS OF the flying objects fall lnto three configurat1on categories: (1) disk-shaped
        (2) rough cigar-shaped {3) balls of fire. Varying conditions of visibility and differences in angles
        at which the objects may have been viewed introduces a possibility that a single type object may
        have been observed rather than three different types. This possibility is further substantiated by
        the fact that 1n the areas where such objects have been observed the ratio of the three general
        configurations is approximately the same.
        6. THEREFORE, IT appears that some object has been seen; however, the identification of that
        object cannot be readily; accomplished on the basis of information reported on each incident. It
        ls possible that the object, or objects, may have been domestically launched devices such as weather
        balloons, rockets, experimental flying wlng aircraft, or celestial phenomena. It is necessary to
        obtain information on such domestic activity to confirm or deny this possibility. Depending upon
.   .
        the degree with which this may be accomplished, foreign devices must then be considered as a
        possibility.
        7. THE PATTERN of sightings is definable. Sightings ~ave been most intense throughout the states
        bordering the Atlantic and Pacific coast lines, and the central states of Ohio and Kentucky. A map
        showing location of sightings is attached as Appendix "B"




                                               ~•• 11c11,                                            - 1 -
 8. THE ORIGIN of the devices is not ascertainable. There are two reasonable possibllltles:
 (1) The objects are domestic devices, and if so, their identification or origin can be established
 by a survey of all launchings of airborne objects. Domestic flying wing type aircraft observed
 in various aspects of flight might be responsible for some of the reported flying objects, particu­
 larly those described as disks and rough cigar shapes. (See Appendices "C" and ''D" .) Among
 those which have been operational in recent years are the XF5U-1 ("Flying Flap3ack") developed
 by Chance-Vaught, the Northrup B-35, and the turbo-jet powered Northrup YB-49. · The present
.existence of any privately developed flying-wing type aircraft has not been determined but one
 such aircraft, the Arup tailless monoplane, was operational at South Bend, Indiana, prior to 1935.
 (2) Objects are foreign, and l:f so, it would seem most logical to consider that they are from a
Soviet source. The Soviets possess information on a number of German flying-wing type aircraft
 such as the Gotha P60A, Junkers EF 130 long-range, high-speed jet bomber and the Horten 229
 twin-jet fighter, which particularly resembles some of the description of un1denttfied flying objects
 (See Appendix "D"). As early as 1924 Tscheranowsky developed a "Parabola" aircraft, an all
wing •design, which was the outcome of considerable Soviet experimentation with gliders of the
 same general form. Soviet aircrait based on such designs might have speeds approaching trans­
 ~;onic speeds attributed to some flying objects or greater over-all performance assuming the
 successful development of some unusual propulsion device such as atomic energy engine.
9. THAT THE Soviets have a current interest in flying-wing type aircraft is suggested by their
utilization of Dr. Guenther Bock who, at the end of. World Wa:r IT, was in charge of the flylng­
wlng program in Germany (See Appendix ''A", paragraph 3, page 4 ). Achievements satisfactory
to the U.S.S.R. are indirectly indicated by the personal recognition he is reported to be receiving
in the U.S.S.R. Recently 1t has been reported that the U.S.S.R. 1s planning to build a fleet of
1,800 Horten flying-wing aircraft. Information· of low evaluation has been received stating that a
regiment of jet night fighters, Model Horten xm, is at Kuzm1kha, an air base two mE.es south­
west of Irkutsk. Kuzmikha is identified as one of a number of airfields for the protection of an
atomic energy plant at Irkutsk. The Horten XIII as developed by Germany was a glider,
10. ASSUMING THAT the objects might eventually be identified as foreign or foreign-sponsored
devices, the possible reason for their appearance over the U.S. requires consideration. Several
possible explanations appear noteworthy, vi.z:
    a. To negate U.S. confidence in the atom bomb as the most advanced and decisive weapon
in warfare.
    b.   To perform photographic reconnaissance missions,
    c.   To test U. S. air defenses.
    d.   To conduct familiarization flights over U.S. territory.

                                         CONCLUSIONS
11. SINCE the Air Force is responsible for control of the air in the defense of the U.S., it is
imperative that a.ll other agencies cooperate in confirming or denying the possibility that these
objects have a domestic origin. Otherwise, if it is firmly indicated that there 1s no domestic
explanation, the objects are a threat and warrant more active efforts of 1dent1fication and inter­
ception.
12. rr MUST be accepted that some type of flying objects have bean observed, although their
identification and origin are not d1scernable. In the interest of national defense it would be
unwise to overlook the possibility that some of these objects may be of foreign origin.




- 2 -
                                         -
                                       .iaa IEIIIE'l        0




                                         APPENDIX "A"


                    ANALYSIS OF FLYING OB· CT INCIDENTS IN THE U. S.
                           AND HYPOTHETICAL TACTICS EMPLOYED



1. INTRODUCTION. To formulate the possible tactics of flying objects reported over the U. S.
assumes ?rom he outset that firm conclusions have been reached on .both the existence and origin
o! the reported flying objects. The current status of information on such incidents and over•all
analysis does not allow substantiation for such conclusions. However, the lack of such firm con­
clusions points to the necessity for an immediate and sound statistical analysis of every aspect of
the situation and does not preclude a concurrent examination of the reported incidents to develop
explanations of their possible tactics. The latter will be useful at some future date should the
existence and origin of the flying objects be definitely established. Therefore, the following analy­
sis of available information is advanced in order to present evidence on the actual existence of
some type flying object and to relate same to tactical purposes for which the objects are possibly
designed. The following discussion must be considered a provisional analysis, pending a further
detailed analysis of all aspects of the problem.
2. SOME ASPECTS REGARDING FLYING OB CT INCIDENTS. A cursory examination of evidence
on repo                     n              s poss            certain generalities which it appears
may be borne out when detailed analyses have been completed.
      Among the incidents reported there are many statements by reliable and experienced persons
whlch tend to confirm that flying objects have been seen. The description of such objects seems
to fall roughly into three categories: (1) Silver disks or balls, approximating a Horten wing type
aircraft; (2) Balls of fire of various colors and intensities; (3) Cigar or pencil-shaped objects
similar in appearance to V -2 type rockets in horizontal flight. The numbers of configurations
might be further reduced with the following considerations in mind: Silver disks or balls have,
for the greater part, been observed in daylight and a number under clear weather conditions with
visibility unlimited. Iri most instances, balls of fire have been observed at night. Cigar, or
pencil-shaped objects have been sighted in fewer numbers but with about equal distrlbuUon 1n
dayllght and at night. A few accounts tell of the disks having a rough cigar-shape when viewed
while maneuvering. Some of the disks are described as having luminosity in daylight. It there­
fore is possible that a single type of object may be involved in all slghtlngs, and differences ln
description may result from viewing the objects at various angles and under dlffering conditions
of visibility.
      The above tends to indicate that some type object ha~ been seen and the possibility exists
that the object or objects seen are conventional domestic devices, such as weather balloons, test
rockets, or jet-equipped aircraft with pancake or flying wing configurations.
      The possibillty exists that the reporting of flying objects may have been influenced by earlier
reports on similar incidents in Scandinavia and Central Europe. The publication in newspaper of
details on such incidents, both foreign and domestic, may have induced eome of the description
provided in reported domestic incidents. However, one of the earliest reported sightings in the
U.S. was the one observed by U.S. Weather Bureau personnel in April 1947, at Richmond, Virginia,
and on the basis of this one report it appears that the disks are not balloons. It would seem that
this sighting was not influenced by the reports of foreign incidents, the newspaper accounts of
domestic incidents, nor by misident1.f1cation of a conventional object.




                                                                                              :. 3 -
      Although reported domestic incidents are widely scattered throughout the U.S., frequency of
sighting and number of observers per sighting assumes a definable pattern. There ls a large con­
centration of sightings along the Eastern Seaboard; another large concentration throughout the
Western Coast states, and a few sightings in the Middle West. Distribution of. incidents by con-          •
figuration af object and description of maneuverability is approximately equal 1n each of these
areas and this ls belleved to further substantiate the possibility that one type of object might have     .   k


been observed In dl:fferent aspects of flight.
     ?f sightings are induced by rumor, it seems unusual that more incidents have not been reported
from the areas with high concentration of population. Reports from such areas would also have
greater facility 1n channeling either to newspaper or official reporting agencies. For the most part,
sightings have been made in fairly open country where there are few restrictions to visibility, which
may indicate that obstructed vision has reduced sightings 1n bullt-up areas.
      It therefore seems that some type of flying object has been observed; the ldentlftcatlon of
its origin requires the compet1on of other analyses.
3. POSSIBLE ORlGIN OF UNUSUAL FLYING O                 CTS. Provided, upon the completion of. analyses,
it is'ln<nciite~ffiar-iroi:ne01::-S:!rof'truri:wor1:ec     bjects over the U.S. are of foreign origin,
the objects could from a logical viewpoint, be considered Soviet. It is evident' from the pertorm­
ance characteristics attributed to the unidentified objects at this time that if they are foreign, they
involve efficiencies of performance which have not been realized in any operational airborne device
in this country. It would, therefore, be a mistake to analyze the technical aspects of the situation
within the limits of our own knowledge of practical developments. n ls more desirable to consider
then the outer limits of possible .soviet developments and objectives ln attempting to formulate some
idea of the tactics which might be involved.
      First of all, the scientific objectives of the U.S.S.R. have been stated many times and Jndicated
1n many forms. The most clearcut statement of this objective ls probably the one contained in the
preamble to the Fourth Five-year Plan (1946-1950} which states that the objective of Soviet .science
ls to overtake and surpass the scientific and technical developments of the capitalist nations. It
apparently would be an impossible task for the Soviet Union to accomplish such an objective by pro­
ceeding step-by-step along the same lines of development already achieved in the capitalist nations.
This would mean that. lt would be necessary to rapidly proceed through each phase of aeronautical
development that has already been accomplished in this country, and this       obably would never• have
any prospects of accelerating Soviet development beyond any point reach by the U.S. The obvious
answer to accomplish their objective of not only overtaking, but surpassing the capitalist countries
would be a scient1flc shortcut. This possibllity ls not so remote when examined on the basis of
our knowledge of the current situation 1n the U .S.S.R. Provided Soviet emphasis was given to the
most promising and advanced ideas acquired from Germany 1n 1946 and the work aided by German
scientists, the possibility of catching up and possibly .surpassing other nations 1n technical develop­
ments becomes more realistic. • It becomes even more realistic l:f the Soviets have shown a tendency
to concentrate on certain developments which have still not received a maximum of priority in our
own programs.
      n 1s known that the U.S.S.R. has since 1945 enlisted the services of Dr. Guenther Bock, a
German who headed all development of low aspect ratio (flying wing) type aircraft in Germany.
Dr. Bock is believed to be the top German scientist In charge at TSAGI and TSIAM which are
"Air Materiel Command" type organizatlons ln the U.S.S.R. Further, it is believed that Dr. Bock
has made available all German plans for flying wing type aircraft to the Soviets. Among the de­
signs considered by the Germans and possibly explolted by the U.S.S.R., are jet-propelled, flying
wing type aircraft whose configuration would be similar to descriptions of certain objects reported
flying over the U.S. The estimated speeds of such aircraft are within range of the lower limits.
of speed attributed to flying objects over the U.s. It ls not impossible that emphasis on surpassing
foreign developments has led to unusual progress 1n fuels and propulsion by the U.S.S.R. In con­
nection with possible advancements 1n the field at fuels and propulsion, it should be observed that




- 4 -
                           •



      the Russian oll situation (regardless of estimated 011 reserves) is quite dl:fferent from that 1n the
      U.S. For example, U.S. oil industry 1s prepared to turn out tremendous quantities of highly frac­
      tionated petroleum products, while the U.S.S.R. cannot reasonably approach such capabilities. This
      consideration dictates different solutions on fuels for propulsion 1n the two countries and in turn,
      dictates the direction taken in development of jet motors or the use of other propulsive devices.
      We must therefore, arrive at the. conclusion that any Soviet device which may have made its
      appearance over the U.S. as descrlb~d, would possess unusual performance characterist1cs which,
      in all probability, would include unusual range. The poss1b111ty that they could have been launched
      at fairly close range should not be discarded.
      4. POSSIBLE REASONS OR TACTICS FOR THE USE OF SOVIET UNCONVENTIONAL AIRCRAFT
                                                 ego             o
      fi ve 15   flown over the U.S. for one, all, or a combination of the following reasons:
          a. TO NEGATE U.S. CONFIDENCE IN ATOM BOMB AS THE MOST ADVANC                           DECISIVE
                                                     a            sense,
      tliaf1lie'Soviets would choose first to frighten pro-American nations in Europe with the appearance
      of a radically new weapon to counteract the ability of the U.S. to obtain full propaganda effective­
      ness with the atom bomb. It will be remembered that strange objects first appeared over the
      Scandinavian countries 1n 1946. The objects observed there had unusual range and unusual per­
      formance characteristics. As this demonstration over the Scandinavian countries occurred the
      U.S. was making a vigorous campaign for the economic and political allgnment of these nations
      with other pro-American Western European nations. When these incidents. subsided, strange flying
      objects began to be observed at an increasing rate over the U.S. The conclusion on thls point is
      that flying objects may have been used to frighten both European nations and the U.S. by the appear­
      ance of a new device, and that failure to identify such a Soviet object would give them invaluable
      indication that U.s. development is far behind that of the Soviets. Except for this indication, it is
      beUeved that the use of the objects to promote fear has been worthless 1n that the U.S. public has
      tended to characterize these incidents entirely as halluclnations by "crack pots", m1sident1ficat1on
      of conventional objects, or that they represent a secret American project which should not be pub­
      licized. Any fear· that might result from Soviet use will come only by a discovery that the objects
      have been Soviet aircraft and that they involve radical developments which are in advance of. our
      own accomplishments.

         b. FOR PHOTOGRAPHIC RECONNAISSANCE. It ls possible that the Soviets have employed the
      flying o ec     or e co ec on        p o ograp c intelligence or the mapping of certain areas in the
      U.S. The evasive action employed by all objects sighted indicates not so much an attempt to avoid
      pelng sighted, as an attempt to prevent disclosure of the exact type of flying craft and its mission.
      The sighting of objects over the U.S. has been most intense in Eastern and Western Coastal States.
      In addition, sightings of flying objects have been made near Oak Ridge, Tenn., Las Cruces, N. M.,
      and in the general area o! the Hanford Works in Oregon. Generally, sightings have not been made
      over what we consider strategic industrial areas. The reason for this. might be either that the.
      flying objects have been observed only enroute to or from missions over these more concentrated
      strategic areas, or that the Soviets obtained sufficient information during their World War Il liaison
      with U.S. industry to satisfy their intelligence requirements and have a more active requirement
      for information on industries and areas which were not available to them during World War TI con­
      tacts. This 1s of interest in connection with the sightings near Oak Ridge, Las Cruces, and in the
      general area of the Hanford· Works since these establishments were not, and are not, accessible to
      Soviet collectors of photographic intelligence .
        . c. TEST OF U. S. DEFENSES. It 1s possible that the use of Soviet flying objects over the U.S.
      is inten    o y o e erm e e ability of the U.S. defenses to spot foreign aircraft. This would
      be of extreme importance to the U.S.S.R. 1n the event that a one-way all-out attack of Soviet strate­
...   gic bombers ls planned. Ability to operate over the U.S. unlnhlblted at a time when the U. S. is
      supposedly re-arming and putting great stress on defenses would provide valuable lnf ormation on
      which to base estimates for probability of success in bombing strategic objectives in the U. S.




                                               SIP 1!1111 I•"'                                      - 6 -
                                        Ill 111111!,Y

   d. FAMILIARIZATION FLIGHTS OVER U.S. TERRITORY. This possible reason ls perhaps the
most lmproo Ele. It r assum d: th t. hoti.la Hi£ purpose oe involved, other purposes are prob­
ably also accomplished in its execution. Provided the U .S.S.R. has wiusually high performance
aircraft they might. find 1t advantageous to familiarize themselves with the topography of the U.S.
1n antlclpation of future combat missions to strategic targets.
6. CONCLUSION. The conclusion that some type of flying object has been observed over the U.S.
see~tantiated. It 1s not known at thls time whether these observations are xn1sidentifl­
cations of domestically launched devices, natural phenomena, or foreign unconventional aircraft·. It
ls, therefore•, impossible to make any rellable explanation for their appearance over the U.S. or the
tactics wh1ch they may employ 1f the objects observed include any f orelgn developments 1n aero­
nautical fields. It 1s likewise impossible ·at this time to contain discussions of possible perform­
ance characteristics or tactics within limits of practical reason, i:f for no other reason than the
fact that proof of. the existence of a foreign development of this type would necessarily . introduce
considerations of new principals and means not yet considered practical possibll1t1es 1n our own
research and development.




- 6 -
                &Ill PIDI n,u,r-


                 APPENDIX "B"



    REPORTED SICHITINClS OF FLYING OBI CT8
             AS Of' 1 AUGUST 1948




•

•

               .C 11 fll I II ,11111'1!      • 7 •
                                        APPENDIX "C"



                    SELECTED REPORTS OF FLYING OBJECT INCIDENTS


1. A NUMBER of reports on unidentified flying objects come from observers who, because of their
technical background and experience do not appear to be influenced by unfounded sensatlonallsm nor
inclined to report explainable phenomena as new types of airborne devices. Some of the details of
their reports are presented in this appendix, along with those from possibly less reliable sources
who have reported evidence which 1s of. such a nature that it cannot be entirely ignored.
2. DESCRIPTIONS OF significant incidents, arranged chronologically, follow:
   a. During April 1947, two employees of the Weather Bureau Station at Richmond, Virginia re­
ported seeing a strange metallic disk on three occasions through the theodolite while making PIBAL
observations. One observation was at 16,000 feet when a disk was followed for 15 seconds. The
disk appeared metallic, shaped something like an ellipse with a flat bottom and a round top. It
appeared below the balloon and was much larger in size. The disk appeared to be moving rather
rapidly, aithough it was impossible to estimate its speed. The other observations were made at
27,000 feet in like manner.
   b. The following month, Byron B. Savage, a field engineer for Radio Corporation of America,
reported a disk flying near his home in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. The object was thought to be
at an altitude between 10,000 feet and 18,000 feet, and was moving toward the north at a high rate
of speed, leaving no trailing effects.
   c. While flylng at 10,000 feet on a course of 300 degrees, 30 miles northwest of Lake Meade,
Nevada, an Air Force lieutenant rE:tported seeing flve or six white circular objects in close forma­
tion and traveling at an estimated speed of 286 miles per hour. This sighting occurred on 28 June
1947.
   d. The followl.ng day a party of three, two of them scientists, were motoring along Highway 17
toward the White Sand, New Mexico, V-2 firing grounds and reported seeing a large disk or sphere
moving horizontally at a high speed and an estimated altitude of 10,000 feet. It was of uniform
shape and had no protruding surfaces such as wings. The object was in sight for about 60 seconds
before 1t disappeared to the northeast. The three observers agreed on the details of the sighting
except that one thought he had seen vapor trails.
   e. On 7 July 1947, five Portland, Oregon police officers reported varying numbers of disks fly­
ing over differell.t parts of the city. All observations were made within a minute or two of 1305
hours.
   f. On the same day, William Rhoads of Phoenix, Arizona. allegedly saw a disk ci'rcling his
locality during sunset and took two photographs. The resulting pictures (page 9) show a disk-like
object with a round front and a square tail in plan torm. These photographs have been examined
by experts who state they are true photographic images and do not appear to be imperfection ln
the emulsion or imperfections 1n the lens. (See Figs. 1, 2, 3 and 4.)




- 8 -
             ORIGINAL PHOTOGRAPHS BY MR. RHOADS




•
    Fii. 1


       ENLARGE:UENTS OJ<' ORIGINAL PHOTOGRAPI!8




•

                                              Fig. 4




                          111111,,
    g. On 10 July lQ-4?, Mr. Wocilrutf, a Pan-American Airways mechanic reported a clrcula.r object
flying at high velocUy, parallelln,r the earth's surface and leavitli a trail which appeared ns a
"hurnini \Ip" of the cloud formation. The sl,.bt1ng occurred near Ha:rmo11 Fteld, Newfo\U1dle.nd.
Two other perso11s also saw !htl trail which remained ln the aky for about nn hour and was phot<,­
gr..phed by another PAA employee. Tha reault!ng photograph• eu.,port M:r. Woodrutf'e obtm:rvation
as fa.r as the eky oleava&e Is co11cerlled. (Sea E'lgs. e and 6.)




                                                                                                      •

                                                                                                      •
                                              Fig. 5




 • 10 •                                    ... IECIEf"
•

•                                                    Pig. (l


       h. Ol:l 20 July 11147, Kenmth Arnold, wh!le flyl:og near Ta.coma, WMhtniiton, reported a forxnatlcn
    of flyil'.lll objeots. Hls slmtch of their 9h•P& oorreeponds C\lo•el'y to that ehown ln tha photoira1ihs
    made by Mr. Rhoads. On tha sa.ma day, two U. S. Air Force pilots rit Hamilton Fhtld reported
    two !lylo,: disks trailing a P-80, following It toward Oakland, Caltlornla.
       L On 4 August 11147, the JJllot. and co-pilot of a DC-3, flying fo.r one Al Jonei,, near Bethel,
    Alask•, raported a tlylng disk ls.rger th!l!l their· air,mut. Thla disk crossed their path at abot1t
    1,000 feet and they turned to give chase. The DC-3 was !Jyini at 170 mph, but the disk flew out
    of ~iil1t !n four mlnute11.
       j. On Ul November 1947, two llyini disks trallillg Jet-like streams of fi:ro wore reportedly
    sighted from the bridge of the 1anker 'l'lconderoia, e.ccor,lllli,' to the saoo11d officc:r. The Tlconderos•
    was 20 miles off th& Oregon shore. '!'his officer salt! the disks w0re in l!lght 45 aeconde, mOYillg
    at a ~peed osti,m,tad at 700-900 mph, curvlnff in a long, low arc.
                                             -lilll!T

   k. On 7 January 1948, a National Guard pilot was killed while attempting to chase an unidentified
object up to 30,000 feet. • While it is presumed that this pilot suffered anoxia, resulting in his crash,
his last message to the tower was, "it appears to be metallic object.... of tremendous size....directly
ahead and slightly above....I am trying to close for a better book."
    1. On 6 April 1948, three trained balloon observers from the Geophysics Laboratory Section,
 Watson Laboratories, N.J. reported seeing· a round, indistinct object 1n the vicinity of Rollman Air
'Force Base, New Mexico. It was very high and fast, and appeared to execute violent maneuvers               • •.
 at high speed. The object was under observation for approximately 30 seconds and disappeared
 suddenly.                                •

  m. A yellow or light colored sphere, 25 to 40 feet in diameter was reported by Lt. Comdr.
Marcus L. Lowe, USN, just south of Anacostia Naval Air Station, D.C., while he was flying on
30 April 1948. It was moving at a speed of approximately 100 miles per hour at an altitude of
about 4,500 feet. Although winds aloft were from the north-northwest, its course was to the
north.
   n. On 1 July 1948, twelve disks were reported over the Rapid City Air Base by Major Hammer.
These disks were oval-shaped, about 100 feet long, flying at a speed estimated to be .ln excess of
500 mph. Descending from 10,000 feet, these disks made a 30-degree to 40-degree climbing turn
accelerating very rapidly until out of sight.
   o. On 17 July 1948, a report from Klrtlan.d Alr Force Base describes a sighting in the vicinity
of San Acacia, New Mexico, of seven unidentified objects flying in a ''J" f ormatlon at an estimated
height of 20,000 feet above the terrain. The formation varied from "J" to "L" to circle after
passing the zenith. Flashes from the objects were observed after passing 30 degrees beyond the
zen.ith but there was no smoke or vapor trail. If the reported altitude is correct the speed was
estimated a't 1,500 miles per hour, according to the report.
   p. other sightings of lights and trails, rather than disks, have been reported, viz:
      (1) On 12 September 1947, the pilot and co-pilot of a Pan American aircraft, en route from
      Midway to Honolulu, saw a blue-white light approaching, changing to twin reddish glows upon
      withdrawal. The pilot estimated the speed of the light at about 1,000 knots.
      (2) On 15 June 1948, Mr. Booneville, territory manager for the B.F. Goodrich Company,
      observed a reddish glow with a jet exhaust in the vicinity of Miles City, Montana. This
      glowing light made no sound, traveled about twice the speed of a conventional aircraft and
      flew from noth to south several times in a wide arc, finally disappearing over the horizon.
   q. During the early morning of 26 July 1948, two Eastern Airlines pilots reported having seen
a huge flying craft similar to a. V-2 pass their aircraft in flight. (See- 'Figs, 7 and 8.) The
attached drawings made by these two observers very closely resemble a flying object reported to
have been seen on 20 July 1948, by A. D. otter, chief investigator of Court of Damage Inquiry, and
his daughter at Arnham, Netherlands. This object appeared to be a wingless aircraft having two
decks. The craft, sighted four times through scattered clouds and unlimited vlsibillty, was travel­
ing at hi.gh speed at a high altitude. A sound similar to that made by a V-2 was reported.
   r. An object, similar in shape to the one in the preceding incident was reported by an experienced
American newspaper reporter about 25 kilometers northeast of Moscow on 3 August 1948. A Russian
acquaintance identified it as a rigid airship but the reporter disagrees because it flew at a high, but
not excessive speed.
   s. On 1 October 1948 at approximately 2030 hours the pilot of a F-51 aircraft, 2nd Lt. George
F. Gorman (North Dakota Air National Guard), flying near Fargo, North Dakota, sighted an inter­
mittent white light about 3,000 feet below his 4,500 feet cruising altitude. The pilot pursued the
light which appear6d to then take evasive tactics. The object or light out-turned, out-speeded, and
out-climbed the F -51 in every instance during the attempt to intercept. The pilot lost contact 27




- 12 -
•

•
    7




        • 13 -
             •

             •
         8




• 14 •
    minutes after the initial sighting. The same light was observed by three other witnesses from the
    ground! Mr. L. D. Jensen, Air Traffic Controller, Mr. Manuel E. Johnson, Assistant Traffic Con­
    troller.> and Dr. L. N. Cannon, Oculist. A comparison of all testimony revealed that one object
    was sighted and that it consisted only of a small round ball of clear white light with no apparent
    shape attached.· It was about 6 to 8 inches in diamter. At times it traveled faster than the F-51
    and performed maneuvers in an evasive manner. When first sighted the ball of light was travel­
t
    ing at an estimated 250 miles per hour. Under this condition, the light was not continuous but
    blinked off and on. At high performance the white light was continuous, Subsequent investigation
    eliminated the possibility that this incident may have been another aircraft or a meteorological
    balloon.
        t. On 18 November 1948 at approximately 2145 hours, three reserve pilots, 2nd Lt. Kenwood
    W. Jackson, 2nd Lt. Glen L. Stalker, and 2nd Lt. Henry G. Combs, flying near Andrews Field,
    Maryland, encountered an unidentified flying object. When first sighted, it appeared to be lighted
    and flying at about 1,700 feet. Three or four passes were made in an attempt to identify it. The
    pilot of the aircraft stated that while diving his aircraft at approximately 240. miles per hour, the
    object would climb vertically and then would drop below the aircraft from behind and continue to
    circle. On the last pass, the landing light was switched on and momentarily a dull gray glow
    from the object was observed. Lt. Combs stated he maintained contact for about ten minutes with
    the object flying between the lights of Washington, D. C. and his aircraft. All that could be
    observed was an oblong ball with one light, no wings and no exhaust flame. It finally made a
    very tight turn and headed toward the east coast at all estimated 500 to 600 miles per hour. At
    the same time Staff Sergeant John J. Kushner observed from the ground an unusual object in the
    air over Andrews Field. He stated that it was not very high and that it did not look like an
    aircraft.
    3. REPORTS OF radar intercepts point to unusual air activity which may be related td flying
    objects.
       a. On 1 July 1947, a GCA radar at Hokkaido, Japan picked up an unidentified target at 16 miles,
    with a speed in excess of 500 mph. This target split into two targets, each estimated to be larger
    than a P-51.
       b. On 16 September 1947, an MEW radar at Fukuoka, Japan, picked up a target at 89 miles and
    trailed it to 19 miles, where it faded. Speed was 840-900 mph. The speed measurement, made
    by a good crew through a 70-mlle track, is believed accurate.
       4. Investigations conducted by Headquarters, Air Materiel Command, have definitely established
    the identification of 18 of approximately 210 so-called flying saucers which have been reported.
    Approximately nine per cent· of the total number of incidents are, therefore, eliminated from
    further specific consideration. Among those incidents positively explained, three were hoaxes,
    two were from unreliable witnesses. In the remaining 13 eliminated incidents, objects were
    actually seen but investigation has shown that they were celestial bodies or phenomena, meteoro­
    logical and carnival balloons, and airborne cosmic ray experimental equipment. The following
    examples are presented for comparison of the information reported by witnesses and true identifi­
    cation of the object involved:
          a. On 22 July 1948, Captain Henry Glover (Ordnance Reserve) and his wife observed at Van
    Nuys, Calliornia, an object which they were unable to positively ldenttfy. Object at :first appeared
    to be round and looked like a weather balloon at about 2,000 feet but there was no characteristic
    bobbing. The wind was blowing on the ground but the object was quite steady. During the time
    it was under observation, about an hour, it traveled through a vertical arc of about twenty-:flve
    {250) degrees or more. The observer concluded that it was not a celestial body. It has a bluish
    luminescence and as the sun set, the object's color gradually changed to orange at dusk and ceased
    to be illuminated almost instantaneously. The outline was clear and the air was clear with
    visibility unlimited. The object traveled from the east to the west.
         This object was determined by investigation to have been a balloon carrying cosmic ray
•   equipment.




                                                                                                 - 15 -
   b. On 19 August 1848, at approximately 1060 hours an unidentified flying object was, visible
from the ground at Godman Air Force Base, Kentucky. This object was estimated to be at about
30,000 to 40,000 feet altitude, spherical in shape, bright silver color and gave a bright reflection
from the sun. An F-61 was dispatched from standi:ford Air Force Base, Kentucky, to observe
the object. During observation from the ground, there was no change in the elevation of the object
and it seemed to be moving southwest from God.man Air Force Base. The F-61 which was flying
over Gedman AFB at an altitude of 30,000 to 35,000 feet reported that it was unable to locate the      I

object although it was still visible :from the ground with the naked eye. Azimuth and elevation
readings were taken by theodolite every minute and the path of the object was charted.

     The object was determined to be the planet Venus by Mr. Moore, the head astronomer at
the University of Louisville, Louisville, Kentucky. It 1s believed that earller incidents at Gedman
Fleld (reference paragraph 2k, page 12, Appendix "C 0 ) may also have been observations of the
planet Venus.
6. AMONG THOSE incidents still not positively explained, reported observations differ to some
extent, but three general categories of sightings emerge -- the flying disk, the ball of flre and
the large jet rock~. Interesting observations that were noted are:
   a. Most of the objects are a thin disk, round on top and flat on the bottom. The front half
of the disk is often circular, sweeping back to a square tall across the full width.
  b. A high rate of cllmb as well as the apparent abllity to remain motionless or hover for a
considerable length of time is indicated.
   c. Reported sizes have varied from that of a 25-cent piece to 260 feet ln diameter, and from
the size of a pursuit plane to the bulk of six B-29 airplanes.
   d. Speeds have been estimated throughout the entire range from very slow or hovering to
supersonic.
   e. Sounds and visual trails are not normally associated with the sightings.




- 16 -                                     ~:II 111"
                                              APPENDIX "D"


                                    FLYING WING TYPE Arn.CRAFT


    1. AERONAUTICAL ENGINEERS in several countries have been engaged for some tlme in the
    design, construction, and flight of flying wing type aircraft. The study of flying objects requires,
    at least, a brief examination of proposed and existing unconventional aircraft whose configurations,
    when seen by the uninitiated, could lead to reports of strange flying devices. A description of
    some of. the more significant types by country follows,              •
    2. GERMANY. At the end of World War II, German aircraft designers had numerous projects
    under way concerning tailless air.craft which conceivably could be mistaken for "Fly~g Saucers"
    or disc-like objects. It is not clear just what the Soviets are doing in the way of developing
    these projects but it is considered that German studies on taflless, delta.-wlng, and related con­
    figurations are available to the U.S.S.R.
       a. ARADO NIGHT AND BAD WEATHER FIGHT                          I. This is a tailless, low-wing
    monop ane w     swept-                                         g a long, narrow fuselage.
                                  Span                          80.3 feet
                                  Length                        42.5 feet
                                  Power Plant                   2 Hes 011 turbo jet units
                                  Max. Speed (sea level)        441 mph
                                  Max. Speed (29,500 feet)      503 mph
       b. ARADO E 581-4. A high-wing tailless single-seater with a single jet unit mounted in the
    fuselage.     bi and ruader units are mounted on the wing midway between fuselage and wing tip
    at the trailing edge.
                                  Span                         29.3 feet
                                  Length                       18.4 feet
                                  Power Plant                  1 HeS 011 turbo jet unit
                                  Max. Speed (sea level)
                                  Max. Speed (service celling)

       c. GOTHA P 60 A. This was the first of the P 60 series of jet fighters. It ls a flying wing
    type ~ o t and observer 11e prone, there is no projecting canopy, thus permitting a
    particularly clean design. The jet.units are mounted at the rear of the center sect1on1 one above
    and one below.                                                          •
                                  Span                          40 feet 8 1/2 in.
                                  Wing Area                     604 square feet
                                  Power Plant                   2 BMW 003 turbo jet units
                                  Max. Speed (23,000 feet)      596 miles per hour
       d. HEINKEL P 1080. This is a single-seat fighter with a sharply swept-back wing, resembling
    a f l y i ~ h a v i n g a single fin and rudder with no tail plane.
                                  Span                        29.2 feet
                                  Wing Area                   218 square feet
                                  No performance estimates are available .
•




                                          ..,.,1111,1M.                                         - 17 -
                                             Iii IU! 1111 J ii ii IHI


   e, JUNKERS~              Of tlle flying w!ug type, this project was established a.s a long-range,
high-~

                                 Span                                   78,8 feet
                                 Wini A:rea                             1290 l!QUa.re feet
                                 Power Plallt                           4 HnS 011 turb:1 j&t imlts
                                 Max, Sp<l•d.                           620 miles per hour
                                 Range                                  3700 mlles

    f. ME: 329. This is a tail.lass mld.-wlng monoplane driven by two pueher propallers with the
e>Df,'lnes centrally loe:,ted in the w!n&'11 on each side of th" stobby round.ed. fuaelege.

                                 Span                                   513 feet
                                 Length                                 35.4 feet
                                 Max. Speed                             456-466 miles per hour
                                 Power Plant                            2 DB 603 reo!1,rocatlng engines

   I!· HORTEN WING.       The closest .resemblsnce to the estl.maied con!1guratlon of "Flying Dll'lts"
Is r e ~ Ho:rten Wini al:rcraft. Work on tJie I{orten 229, a tw!n jet flgbtel', had pro.
i,'ressed to the final 11t11.ge11 at the end of World War II. !ts prototyps, a Horten illder, succeslil-         •
!{ully soared to an) altitode of H,200 feet as early as 11138, provlni,' tlla 1>0!11'.ldnoss ot this delillgn.
  Flge, 1, 2 and 3




                                                                                                                 •
                                                     Fig. 1




                                              IIIFllllllliL
•   •
•
                                            ~ II Pl I Ii NJIAli



    3. GREA'I' BRITAill.
       a,                  G WHI'I'WORTH.     The AW 52 G, t1 g.lldar, and the AW 68, a twl!i-jat air,
    plane, are B                                    The vertical sta.bll!zere are located at the tips
                                          llircra:!t.
    of the swept-back wing.   (Figa. <l and 6) Data c>n the AW 52 appear bolow.

                                  Spiln                           00 feet
                                  Lai:,gth                        37 feet
                                  Mro,:, Speed (sea level)        435 knots
                                  Mro,:. Speed {20,000 !eat)      435 knots
                                  Mu. Bp<ted (3fl,OOO feet)       417 knota
                                  Range                           1300 nautical m!l,m
                                  Power Plant                     2 Nene 11 turbo jet ,mlts




•   •aMITIIO"tO
    '#MITWOaTH
       l',,'#,U
    .......ia.•nW
     .,,1......,...
       ,.,,~NIil
      ~•t--,,-..: i.-;




•                                                       Fig. 4




                                             IIIFIPlll'llllr
•   •
                                       l'Olll'lltl'!N'I'~


    4. UNITED S'l'ATES .
       ~ 3 6 . This is a flyir1g wing typ!I aircraft, powe-rdd by fom• 1·eclproce.tlng ,mglnes
    and haa ., !nii span ' 172 f10et arid a lmigth of only 63 !eet. (SN• Fig. 6)




•

•

                                                                                       • 23 ~
 b. NORTHROP YB 41l. Powered by elghl. turb()-jet en~ines, this airplane ls the jat-prop&lled.
v e r s l ~ ' l y l n g Wing (B 35). ~9~" Fli, 7)




                                                                                                 •

                                                                                                 •
                                                7
        c:. CHANCE-VAUGHT XF5U-1. De11<tloped by Cbon<;e-Va~ht Alrcro1t, this l'ililkal des\in
     prom!Ml!            y            low Apeed per:!orm•nce, PoweN,d by two R-2000-!J er~!ne.l!l,
     the altplane will have a speed range of from 40 to 425 m!l,sH, pe:r lm1.1t·. (S&e P'li;. 8)




•

•
,.
                                                        8
,,




                                                                                                ,,, 25 ..
                                          ,Jl!!'U! Cl 1111 !!!iii I rlJ l
                                                 '
   ct ARU:P TAILLESS MONOPLANE. Jane's "All the World's Aircraft" (1.113~ edition) describes
this          a.e "              m       e with a 70 h.p. L"Blond engine.... Thia hni, a high aspect
ratio wlni wl.th straight leadlllfC-edQ'e and bunt in nacelle ...." In plan form, the wing is almost
eaml-clrcu1ar.
      An Alr Force film, "A"ronauiicol Oddilie~", ehowe thin airplana !n !liiht at South Bflnd,
Indiana and In some att1tucle11 appaars !d,mt!cnl to the photograi;,h included in Appendix "C" as
Figura 4. Although it ls beli.,...ed that the A."'tUP 'Manufactm:-ing Co. I.a no longer In exllltence,
il la pos31bl0 that later models of tbis or similar U.S. ol'fll ~.lrcra:rt may !Jave been obeerved.

                                Span                                        22 feet
                                Length                                      19 ieet
                                Pow,,r Plant                                1 LeBlond enr;!llli
                                Max. SpHd                                   86 miles per hot1l'




                                                                                                           •·

                                                                                                           •
f>. ALTHOUGH APPENDIX "D" is not Intended to <IX!)laln eonoluslvely the ph&nomeno11 o:f "Flying
Sane&rs" the posslb!llty of ru1cor1vent!onal type aircro:tt being the caune of flying disk raport11 must
not he overlooked.
                                                                                 fl ............_ ______ _   DATE   Af,,,..
                                REGISTER OF PERSONNEL                            e.s. CON!. I
                             HANDLING TOP SECRET MATERIAL                                                      D~p5
                                                                                                  USAJ'
DIVISION                                                              0 FF ICE


                D/I     Us.il'    4B 85~-Pentagon
                                                                            NUM8ER OF PAG _
 tlBJE.CT A
    Air
               ESCRIPTION.OQF INC
            el Rpt fl 0-2              ~9. Cy fl02 of 103                 BASIC
                                                                                                                    OF I NCLOSURES

    SubA.Oi'OilT U S                                                                                           0
                                                                          INC LS.
                                                       INSTRUCTIONS

The above described Top-Secret document has been received in this office this date. The circulation of
thi• material will be limited to the minimum number of person• necessary for completion of the required
action,  The name• of all peraons handlina or havin4 knowledae of the subject docuMent will be record•d
below a• indicated.
The document will be returned to the Tor-Secret Control Officer (Rooa _ _ _ _ _ _ ) for record prior to
dispatch from thi• office or other disposition, Thi• forM will not be removed from the subject document
except by him when lorwardin,.
                                                                                                                          ALL PAPER
                      NAME                    DATE         TIME                                PURPOSE
                                                                                                                           ATTACHED
                                             5 Dec        0900                   Processing                                   yes

                                               ....                                                                            .. ,




                                              MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD




AF HS FORM 6                     PREVIOUS EDITIONS OF THIS FORM
                                                                                                                               9-836,J.F
26 ,J LY 1~8                     ARE OBSOLETE,
