Tape 5/2


              CC    Yes, we copied your VI and your EMS numbers, and
                    we've got a number for you. Maneuver start time
                    will be at 03 plus 33 plus 27.

              LMP   Okay, we got you.        Maneuver at 03:33:27.

              cc    That's affirmative, Jack.

              LMP   You guys didn't tell us we couldn't see anything
                    going through the sunrise.

              cc    (Laughter)     Roger.

00 03 25 01   cc    17, Houston. We're making plans here for a space­
                    craft SEP time of 03 plus 43.

              LMP   03 plus 43.     Roger.

00 03 27 27   cc    17, Houston.     We're copying cabin press of 5.9 this
                    time.

              CMP   Roger.   We - we just got it, Bob.

              cc    Okay.

              CMP   Thank you.

00 03 31 55   LMP   Frame 65 for the LMPs mag November November.

00 03 34 10   LMP   Okay.    We - we are maneuvering, Houston.

              cc    Roger.    We're watching it.

              CMP   Now we've got a few very bright particles or frag­
                    ments or something that go drifting by as we
                    maneuver.

              CC    Roger.    Understand.

              LMP   There's a whole bunce of big ones on my window
                    down there - just bright. It looks like the
                    Fourth of July out of Ron's window.

              CMP   Yes. Now you can see some of them in shape.
                    'They're very jagged, angular fragments that are
                    tumbling.
                                                                   Tape 5/3


              CC    Roger.   They look like fluid of some sort?

              CMP   Not to me.    They look like pieces of something.

              CC    Roger.

              CMP   They're very bright.

              CC    Jack, we'd like OMNI Charlie.

              CMP   Bob, for the most part, these fragments are not -
                    or are tumbling at a very slow rate. I tried a
                    couple of pictures of them - different settings.
                    You may get an idea of what, at least, the patterns
                    look like.

              CC    Roger. I've got you. We're all ears on these frag­
                    ments. Do you think you can figure out what they
                    might be?

              CMP   Well, you know I - I don't know. There are a num­
                    ber of possibilities. If you had some kind of a -
                    I got the impression maybe they were curved a little
                    bit, as if they might be - off the side of the
                    S-IVB. And that's a wild guess

              CDR   Okay.    RCS LOGIC is ... - -

              CMP   - - ice chunks, possibly.       Or maybe there's paint
                    coming off of it.

00 03 37 34   cc    Roger. I noticed on one trip up the elevator last
                    weak near one of the flags. I thought it was on
                    the S-II, but it might have been on the S-IVB.
                    Looked like it was peeling. Maybe that's what
                    you've got.

00 03 37 45   cc    And the S-IVB maneuver is complete.

00 03 37 46   LMP       in 1 minute.

              CDR   Okay.    We'll set the old clock.

              CMP   Okay. And the - with the maneuver complete, the
                    fragment field is essentially static, except for
                    very slight tumbling within the fragments.
Tape 5/4


00 03 38 01   cc    Roger.    Cut in.

              CMP   Every once in a while, a fragment of considerably
                    higher velocity than the others goes across my
                    window. But that's very rare.

              CC    Roger.

              CMP   Hey, that's that field of view I saw out my window.
                    Jack, do you see it now?

              LMP   Yes.

              CMP   And, Bob. At least, there - there's no apparent
                    relative motion between fragments.

              CC    Roger.    Understand.

              CMP   I'll take two pictures about a minute apart if I
                    can. And it'll be Frame 70.

              CC    Okay.    Frame 70.

              CDR   And, Bob. This is Geno. My impression is that
                    they are - flat, flakelike particles. Some may
                    be 6 inches across. And, although there's no
                    relative motion between the two, most of them seem
                    to be twinkling. And I think, for the most part,
                    they're all moving away from us.

              cc    Roger, Gene.       Thank you.

00 03 39 35   CMP   Okay.    We've got 0180 and 0 on the old thumbwheels.

              LMP   Okay.

              cc    Roger, Ron.

00 03 39 53   CMP   Okay.    TRANS CONTROL is ARMED .

              LMP   . . . two ARMED.

00 03 39 57   CMP   CONTROLLER number 2 is ARMED .

              LMP   ... SECS LOGIC      ...
                                                                    Tape 5/5


00 03 40 01   CMP   Okay. SECS LOGIC is CLOSED; SECS ARM are CLOSED;
                    LOGIC POWER is ON.

              LMP   Okay.

00 03 40 13   cc    17, Houston.      You have a GO for T&D.

              CDR   Okay.    A GO for T&D.

00 03 40 38   CMP   Okay. We'll ARM the PYROs.       And we'll hit the GDC
                    ALIGN.

00 03 41 00   CMP   And maneuver's complete.      And 0180 and O? On the
                    GDC? No. It's just ...        It's kind of diddling.

00 03 41 19   CMP   Okay.    DELTA-Vin NORMAL.

00 03 41 42   CMP   S-IVB, okay.      Okay, switches are all set.

              LMP   Okay; 59 : 30 .

00 03 41 55   CMP   Okay.    Let's start the DET.

00 03 41 59   CDR   Tickity-tick-tickity, Houston.       We're running
                    at 59: 30.

              cc    Roger.

              CMP   Okay.

00 03 42 12   CMP   Okay.    That's LAUNCH VEHICLE SEP, push button.

              LMP   Okay.

00 03 42 19   CMP   MC in AUTO.

              CMP   Next?

00 03 42 29   CDR   SEPARATION, Houston.

              CMP   Okay, check the covers.      Okay.   And check the
                    other ones off.

              LMP   They're all ...

              CMP   Okay, I'm going to start the - My gr.,sh, look at
                    the junk! Okay; there's 15 seconds. Pitch her
                    up. Okay, we'll PROCEED on the - -
Tape 46/4

02 18 4111    CDR   Okay.    Is that it?   Yes, I can get that, Gene.

              CMP   Okay, you want to take a picture of it first?
                    Okay, POWER ... Okay, stand by. 3, 2, 1 -

02 18 41 59   CMP   MARK it.     POWER switch OFF.

              CDR   Say, Bob or Stu.

              cc    Roger.     Go ahead.

02 18 42 34   CDR   Okay, add - to ad to today. Not last night, but -
                    I guess the first night I was in bed - I definitely
                    saw some of these - because I had a hard time going
                    to bed, to start with - I saw some of the same
                    peripheral horizon-type things you said were not
                    the type of data you were looking for; but I also
                    saw a - some sets of the streaks. And probably
                    the one most imposing thing I remember is - and the
                    last one I remember before falling asleep - was
                    the fact that there was a very bright spot that
                    flashed right between my eyes like a very bright
                    headlight - like a train coming at you, only with
                    a flash. It's difficult probably to estimate the
                    frequency of any of those because I was in a -
                    sort of a sleep-hazy mode.

              CC    Roger.

              CDR   But then, as today, I saw some that flashed and
                    lit up the horizon and some that lit up peripher­
                    ally; and I guess, as you say, that's a different
                    kind of data, but I did see them there and they
                    impressed me.

              CC    Okay.    We got all that, Gene.

              CDR   Okay.

              CMP   And it might be interesting to know I've never
                    seen it before today.

              CC    Hey, Gene, we appreciate all the data. We were
                    just trying to make the data fit the curve; you
                    know the old trick.
                                                           Tape 46/5


02 l8 44 40   CDR   Okay, I just wanted you to - just told them like
                    we saw them. That's all.

              CC    Roger.

              CDR   I will say one thing, though; no question in my
                    mind but that they're there. Last trip I took,
                    I guess I just wasn't looking for them or paying
                    any attention to them. Maybe they were there and
                    I ignored them because of other things. But they're
                    there.

              LMP   Okay, all you flash bugs down there - or flash­
                    bulbs I guess is the word - frame 50. I just took
                    four pictures to show - two on the side and two
                    on the bottom - to show the position of the ALFMED,
                    and one of them of each set was focused on the
                    ALFMED. The others were focused on the - the
                    other set was focused on the struts.

              CC    Roger, Jack.

              LMP   And when you don't have anything else to do, why
                    don't you have somebody predict where the S-IVB
                    is. I think I've got her spotted - behind us and
                    above us with respect to the Earth and our travel
                    from it.

              CC    FIDO just went out and shot himself, but we'll
                    get working on it.

              LMP   Oh, don't worry about it. Shoot. I thought you
                    guys might have an idea off-the-cuff there.

              CC    No, what's humorous on this, Jack, is they have
                    really been working on that S-IVB impact point -
                    and they've really been - it's been a - a real
                    difficult problem for them so far.

              LMP   I'll tell you, I bet you Ron could give a star
                    sighting on it (laughter). I looked at it through
                    the monocular and sure looks like the S-IVB.

              CC    Jack, we're not doubting you at all. We could
                    probably start cranking it right now.
Tape 46/6


02 18 46 46   cc    Jack, are you sto - you all stowing the ALFMED
                    now or are you done?

              CMP   What's that, Bob?

              CC    Are you all done with the ALFMED now, Ron?

              CMP   Yes, I've got to get it to - get the plate moved
                    back down there yet.

              CC    Okay, Ron -

              CMP       get the blindfold off first so I can see what
                    I'm doing.

              CC    Roger. I just want you to know. We've got a real
                    long update coming up to you here on the LOI abort
                    charts and that - and it's going to be, probably,
                    a difficult readup. And you're the most familiar
                    with the charts; you probably would want to take
                    them. But whenever you want to take them, they
                    are on - charts on page 3-81, 3-82, and then the
                    cue card for LOI limits. Whenever you want to
                    take them. It will be a lengthy one.

              CMP   Stand by, Bob. Let us get squared away from the
                    ALFMED; then we can get going on that.

              CC    No, I don't want to hurry you, Ron. I just want
                    you to know what - when - just get yourself com­
                    fortable and be ready to take them whenever you
                    want them. It's going to be a lengthy time,
                    though.

02 18 47 51   CMP   Okay.

              CDR   Hey, Bob, I'm looking at what - what Jack was
                    talking about; and it's definitely not a particle
                    that's nearby because there is another one I can
                    look at and get a three-dimensional comparison
                    with. It is a - it is a bright object, and it's
                    obviously rotating because it's flashing. It's
                    way out in the distance, as I say, because there
                    are particles that are close by and it's obviously
                    not one of those. It's apparently rotating in a
                                                            Tape 46/7


                    very rhythmic fashion because the flashes come
                    around almost - almost on time. And it's as we
                    look back at the Earth, it's up at about 11:00
                    about - oh, maybe 10 or 12 Earth diameters. I
                    don't know whether that does you any good, but
                    there is something out there.

              CC    Roger. We don't doubt it, Gene. And we might
                    work out a set of gimbal angles or something here;
                    maybe we can get a look at it through the optics.

02 18 49 02   CDR   Okay. And I - I    I just want to emphasize that
                    it's definitely not - not one of these particles
                    that tends to look like a star out there. It's
                    something physical in the distance. (Laughter)
                    Oh, yes.

              SC          thing off.

02 18 50 13   CMP   Yes, guess I am.

              CC    Okay, Gene. If you can call up a NOUN 20 so we
                    know the spacecraft attitude, and if you can
                    reference the object you're looking at out of your
                    window, with - with respect to body axis and let
                    us look at your - your - give us a mark, somehow,
                    and give us your NOUN 20s, we can try and get a
                    tie-in and start locating - locating this object
                    down for you.

02 18 50 58   CDR   Okay, I'm looking it out - looking at it out the
                    center window - the hatch window - and I'll give
                    you a hack when it crosses the XX axis at the
                    center window; and I guess it's up maybe 45 degrees.

              CC    Okay, give us a hack and we're copying your
                    NOUN 20s right now.

              CDR   Okay, Jack says pitched up about 30 degrees but - -

              LMP   No.    45, because -

              CDR   Yes, he agrees. It's 45 degrees pitched up, and
                    I'll give you a hack when it crosses the XX axis.

              CDR   Okay -
Tape 46/8


02 18 51 32   CDR   MARK it.   It just crossed through the - -

              CC    Mark.   We got it.

              CDR       let's call it the XZ plane of the spacecraft.
                    One unique thing about it, Bob, is that it's got
                    two flashes. As it comes around in - in rhythmic
                    fashion, you get a very bright flash; and then
                    you get a dull flash. And then it'll come around
                    with a bright flash, and then a dull flash.

02 18 52 18   LMP   That's the side and - of the S-IVB - and then the
                    engine bell, Gene.

              LMP   The commander doesn't think that I can see the
                    engine bell on that thing.

              cc    Roger, Ja.ck. Is that with the monocular you're
                    looking at it?

              CDR   He couldn't see the engine bell if he had 10 monoc­
                    ulars.

              CMP   Okay.   I've got the cable restowed now.

              cc    Say again, Ron.

02 18 53 10   CMP   And, Gene, where's your blindfold? ...

02 18 55 24   LMP   Bob, couple of revolutions ago when I was looking
                    at it, I had a much brighter view and I believe
                    I was looking at it broadside. It looks to me like
                    it may be flashing more or less end-on now. It's
                    much, not - not as bright, although it's getting
                    brighter. But it's not as bright now as it was
                    awhile ago.

              CC    Roger, Jack.

              LMP   ... we've been noticing that, I think, for about
                    24 hours or so. I just - hadn't put it together
                    as maybe being the S-IVB. I thought it was just
                    some other particle out there.

02 18 56 27   cc    Roger, Jack.

              CDR   Hey, Robert, what's the final Cowboy score?
                                                             Tape 46/9


              CC    Okay; I was just going to update that. The Cowboys
                    won it 34 to 24. And by winning it, they wrap up
                    the wild-card slot in the NFC; and so both Wash­
                    ington and Dallas will be in the playoffs.

02 18 56 53   CDR   Sounds good.

              LMP   Bob, that line of clouds I called a fir-tree pat­
                    tern that swings up towards Hawaii: Hawaii, if
                    you will - has - also has a mushroom pattern on
                    the top. It has the appearance as if tvo major
                    air masses - one going from west to east and the
                    other form east to west - have converged along
                    that line, and the joint movement of air at the
                    interface being south to north. And up in the
                    area of Hawaii, I think, it tends to mushroom so
                    that the pattern then goes back to flow from west
                    to east on the east side and from east to west on
                    the west side.

              CC    Roger.

02 18 58 27   LMP   In a little while, we'll probably get a pretty
                    good look at a - what looks like a very concen­
                    trated intense storm that, I think, is just - east -

              CMP   *** And then we' 11 put them. once we get updated a
                    little bit. Yes, I'll get out of VOX in a minute.

              LMP   I was looking for the Flight Plan and stuff.   And
                    the little books.

              LMP   Say, Bob.

              CC    Go ahead.

              LMP   Houston, 17.   How do you read?

              CC    Go ahead, Jack.   Read you loud and clear.

              CDR   Okay, Bob, you want to update the LOI card and
                    Flight Plan 3-82 and 3-81; is that right?

              CC    That's affirmative.

              CDR   Which one do you want to start on?
Tape 47/14


                    And I'll just confirm that the - that disturbance
                    over the So - Solomon Islands is an awfully tightly
                    wound little storm system. And right now, I finally
                    have see New Zealand for the first time in a couple
                    of days, for sure. And the South Island's got some,
                    probably high cirrus over it. North Island looks
                    pretty clear. That's the end that I can get right
                    now.

              CC    Roger. We saw you looking at Regulus there; we
                    didn't realize you were looking at the Earth
                    instead.

              LMP   Ron's been looking for the booster. And he called
                    me down and asked me to look at the Earth. He's
                    been holding out on me.

              CC    Roger.

              LMP   Pass the torch of weather forecasting to Ron.

02 20 55 22   cc    Hey, Jack. I also have some words for you and
                    Gene. Got some advice from the home front. The
                    thing to do with Ron in the future is to hook up
                    a Baby Ben and a metal dishpan. It works every
                    time, if you want to wake him up.

              CMP   No.   I think that's not a good way.

              CC    Ron, everybody I s fine over at El Lago.   They are
                    doing great. Listening to every word.

              CMP   Very good, Bob.   Thank you very much.

              CDR   Hey, Bob. We got two of those flashers out there.
                    They could be SLA panels. I don't know. They're
                    alike in intensity and pretty regular in the - in
                    the intensity, bright and dim flashes they come
                    out with, and they're widely separated. One is
                    about the position we called at the first time;
                    the other one is - oh, as I'm looking at the Earth,
                    far to the left. Closer to the center window now.

02 20 56 52   cc    Roger.

02 21 01 07   LMP   Houston, 17,
                                             Tape 47/15


CC    Go ahead.

LMP   Yes, Bob, what is your - analysis chart, if you
      have it - surface tenns analysis chart show for
      Hawaii today?

CC    Stand by on that.

CC    Jack, according to the - -

LMP   The reason I ask is that for using your term -
      Go ahead.
CC    No, go ahead on that, Jack.

LMP   I was going to say, using your terminator time as
      a partial - mark for where Hawaii ought to be,
      Hawaii ought to be, it looks like that cyclonic
      circulation at the north end of the cloud bank I
      described, approaching that area, would be Just
      about on the Hawa - Hawaiian Islands. I'm curious
      if they're getting some weather down there now.

CC    Stand by right now; I've got my weathennan right
      beside me here.

LMP   Also, that major front we talked about last night
      as being east and south of Japan has progressed
      even farther and is, oh, maybe 20 degrees longi­
      tude - about 20 degrees longitude from the Hawaiian
      Islands. And I'm making some guesses on exactly
      where Hawaii is.

CC    Roger, Jack. We've got nothing adverse in the
      Hawaiian area at all. Just a lot of winds , high
      winds and surface winds and surface roughness,
      but we don't have any bad cloud area in the
      Hawaiian area. I'll get the Hickam sequence re­
      port here shortly, Jack.

LMP   Okay, ... a little bit. The - our zero-phase
      point is now centered just a little south of the
      disturbance near the Solomon Islands. And I see
      no distinct change in the intensity of that zero­
      phase point over what I had talked about a couple
      hours ago.
Tape 47/16


02 21 04 23   cc    Roger, Jack. The Solomon Islands disturbance
                    and everything is confirmed on this chart that
                    I've got. It's very definitely confirmed in there.

              LMP   Okey. Well , it's a lot more obvious todey than
                    it was yesterday; but even then it was showing
                    pretty strong circulation. It is starting to
                    wrap up, look very much like Therese did yesterday.

              CC    Roger. I'm sure of that. The one right off of
                    Vietnam is also pretty tight, isn't it still?

              LMP   Well, we can't see that one yet.

              CC    Okay.

              LMP   Australia in general is still very clear except
                    in the northeastern portions where it looks like
                    they have got scattered clouds; but it looks like
                    a pretty night - over Australia.

              CC    Roger. Looks that way from the satellite photo
                    from the last couple deys. Looks pretty nice
                    down there.

02 21 05 34   LMP   Right.

02 21 07 05   cc    Jack, in looking at the sequence reports for
                    Hickam and Hilo and that area, it looks like they
                    just got their standard 3500 scattered, 4500 broken
                    clouds , maybe a rain shower or two. But just
                    their standard tropical fluffy clouds.


                             END OF TAPE
                                                           Tape 59/19


                     mare. Still looking at Oceanus Procellarum. And
                     now, out window 3, up to the northwest, Grimaldi
                     is starting to show up - a very obvious dark area
                     within the highlands of that part of the Moon -
                     and one of the darkest mare regions that we have
                     seen on the - on the Moon. It I s comparable, at
                     least in the photographs, to that of Tsiolkovsky.

              cc     Roger.

03 15 33 25   I.MP   Normally, of course, we think of the dark mare as
                     being the younger basalt flows that - on the Moon,
                     but in our case, of course, young means something
                     on the order of 3 billion years or older.


                              END OF TAPE
                                                               Tape 60/1


               APOLLO 17 AIR-TO-GROUND VOICE TRANSCRIPrION


03 15 33 44   cc       Roger.

              LMP      For our interp - If we can extrapolate from the
                       samples returned by other missions.

              LMP     Amazing how far over - now the highlands to the
                      west of Procellarum are - still are bright, and the
                      contrast between fresh craters and the normal high­
                      land are very - are very obvious still in earthlight,
                      particularly along the zero phase point with respect
                      to the Earth. Rima Gamma now is - is coming a lit­
                      tle bit closer to our oval track in the horseshoe
                      in the - larger and more western end of it; the
                      dark horseshoe is quite clear in this light. It's
                      a west - or northwest-pointing horseshoe, as is the
                      complete trend of that strange feature. I think
                      Ron is going to have an excellent chance to study
                      these light-colored swirls within the mare and
                      other parts of the Moon. We had some good views
                      of them and Mare Marginis and to the east of
                      Crisium - Mare Crisium, and he should - if there
                      is anything to be seen, he should be able to see
                      it for - during the next few days.

              CC       Okeydoke.

03 15 35 50   CDR     Say, Gordo, something I just noticed here in work­
                      ing with the GDC what-have-you. I - looked at the
                      Pc gage, and in the Pz - Pc position, there is a
                      continuous bias on it now of about, oh, 7 percent,
                      and if I switch to ALPHA, it goes to zero. We never
                      saw that bias before this last burn.

              CC      Roger, Gene.

03 15 36 35   LMP     Hey, Gordy, I'm looking right up the western edge
                      of the Procellarum mare where it contacts the -
                      the - the high - western highlands of the Moon, and
                      we're just about to fly a little bit south of
                      Grimaldi. That edge is very irregular. There is
                      no obvious indications that it - there are large
                      basins that have been flooded by mare that have
                      formed that edge, but, again, the topographic dis­
                      tinction's possible in this lighter small. Now I'm
                      starting to see that there are shadows in the craters.
Tape 60/2


              CC    Roger.

              LMP   That's the small craters. There, in the Mare
                    Procellarum closest to Grimaldi, there are two
                    arcuate rilles. Look like they are probably
                    V-shaped in their cross section. I'm sure we've
                    seen those on the photographs much better than I
                    can see them here. Those - the rille patterns,
                    though, do seem to project over into the highlands.

              CC    Okay.

              LMP   To the north of that - to the north of that bay
                    of mare. Just interrupt.

03 15 38 09   LMP   Hey, I just saw a flash on the lunar surface!

              CC    Oh, yes?

              LMP   It was just out there north of Grimaldi. Just
                    north of Grimaldi. You might see if you got any­
                    thing on your seismometers, although a small impact
                    probably would give a fair amount of visible light.

              CC    Okay.    We'll check.

              LMP   It was a bright little flash right out there near
                    that crater. See the crater right at the edge of
                    Grimaldi. Then there is another one north of it.
                    Fairly sharp one north of it is where there was
                    just a thin streak of light.

              CC    How about putting an X on the map where you saw it.

              LMP   I keep looking occasionally for - yes, we will.
                    I - I was planning on looking for those kind of
                    things. Starting to see the edge of Orientale,
                    Gordy. Way off to the west. Hey, just yell,
                    Gene, anytime you - -

03 15 39 46   LMP   Gordy, to the north of Grimaldi there is a large
                    basin that is about the same size but only incom­
                    pletely filled with mare in its northeastern
                    quadrant. The rest of it looks like a fairly ir­
                    regular and hummocky floor material of some kind.

              CC    Roger,
