“Orbs Launching Orbs”
•   Location: Western U.S.
•   Time of Day: Dusk (on two separate days)

•   Three teams of two federal law enforcement special agents each (USPER1 through USPER6) independently
    describe seeing orange “orbs” in the sky emit/launch smaller red “orbs” in groups of two to four, with three
    being the general consensus. This is stated to have occurred at least five times. Each time, the orange orb
    would appear, launch red orbs, then disappear. The orange orb was only visible for one or two seconds. The
    red orbs would generally move away from the orange “mother” orb in a horizontal path, but in a couple of
    instances, one red orb was stated to move “heading up at an angle,” while another witness stated sometimes
    the red orbs would “swoop down” after being launched from the larger orange orb. These events were
    witnessed by multiple teams from varying locations and vantage points over a two-day period. Due to the
    sequential nature of the events, it is not known whether there was a single orange “mother” orb that released
    the groups of red orbs or whether there were multiple orange orbs at play.
“Large, Fiery Orb”
•   Location: Western U.S.
•   Time of Day: Dusk                                                                           Artist Rendering

•   Two federal law enforcement special agents (USPER5 and USPER6) witness a glowing orange orb at a distance of
    “approximately 500-600 meters,”* where it was perched close to a rock pinnacle. Size was difficult to determine,
    but it appeared to be similar in size to a “small helicopter cockpit.”** Witnesses were unable to clearly see any
    structure other than the glowing orb, though USPER6 noted that the object “did almost appear it might have had a
    small spindle or something connecting it from underneath to the rock formation.” Witnesses stated that the object
    did not emit any noticeable sound. The object was described as being “similar to the Eye or [sic] Sauron from Lord
    of the Rings, except without the pupil, or maybe an orange Storm Electrify bowling ball.”
•   USPER6 stated the object “seemed to be hovering with zero resistance or movement, or to be suspended…” The
    sighting lasted “about a minute.”

* Measurements later gathered by AARO assess the object to have been ~1050 meters away from the observers.
** Measurements later gathered by AARO assess the object to have been between 12-18 meters in diameter.
    “Dark Kite”                                                                  Red light



                                                                                                       White light
•   Location: Western U.S.
•   Time of Day: Pre-dawn hours                                       Image 1: Recreation of drawing provided by USPER6 of
                                                                      object seen in night vision goggles.
•   Two federal law enforcement special agents (USPER5 and USPER6) observed what is initially thought to be a car traveling
    along a road in a restricted zone. The “car” had two lights (one red and one white) that are about 2 to 3 feet off the
    ground. Agents pursued the “car” and as they got to within a few hundred feet of it, the object suddenly moved off the
    road over the desert without changing its orientation with respect to the observers, i.e., it appeared to move laterally, at
    an estimated speed of 15-20mph. The object didn’t change height and appeared to move with “zero resistance.” The
    object stopped about 100 meters off the side of the road and turned off its lights. USPER6 described the object as a “thin
    line,” from the back whereas the other agent (USPER5) stated that “it almost looked like an ill defined, dark kite shape
    that had some rounded width to the sides.”*

•   USPER6 used night vision goggles (NVGs) to view the object once it had stopped off the road. The agent stated that they
    observed the object for “a split second in the NVGs before the light turned off” and that once the lights were off, a “very
    thin line” remained. The object was estimated to be about 4 feet wide and positioned horizontally to the ground (see
    Image 1). The object then began moving at about the speed of 15-20mph and appeared to “move up in height…, but
    [remain] a flat line.” The agent lost sight of the object after a few seconds.

* In later discussions with AARO, the object is described as being triangular.
                                                                                                              Note: Outline was not

“Transparent Kite”                                                                                            definitive, but location
                                                                                                              of lights stayed in exact
                                                                                                              formation.
•   Location: Western U.S.
•   Time of Day: Pre-dawn hours

•   About 30 minutes after the “Dark Kite” sighting, federal law enforcement special agents
    (USPER5 and USPER6) returned to the same general area with another colleague
    (USPER7) in response to a report of another unauthorized object in the area. Within a few
    hundred meters of the “Dark Kite” sighting, two of the team members (USPER5 and
    USPER6) observed a kite-shaped object with a lighting pattern similar to the object seen
    previously. This object is about 6 meters off the ground, is canted at an angle from lower
    right to upper left (see Image 2), and appeared to be floating slowly with the wind.
    USPER5 was using NVGs when viewing the object and USPER6 used the bare eye.
    USPER7 did not see the object. USPER5 stated that in the night vision goggles, they could
    “vaguely see a bright star or two in the distance through the object, though somewhat
    more faint,” leading them to believe the object was somewhat transparent. After losing
    sight of the object, USPER5 tried using a spotlight to find it again. The witness noted that
    when shining the light around, “at one point my beam went from shining far into the            Image 2: Recreation of drawing
    distance to stopping about 50 yards away on nothing in particular, it just was not             provided by USPER6 of object
                                                                                                   seen with the bare eye.
    projecting into the distance and then it was.” When the witness pointed the light at the
    spot where the light had appeared to be blocked by something, this time the light was
    “projecting into the distance again.” The team was unable to reacquire sight of the object.
